Saturday of the first week of August
[Tempora/081-6]

Lesson I
Lesson from the book of Proverbs
Prov 16:1-5
It is the part of man to prepare the soul: and of the Lord to govern the tongue. All the ways of a man are open to his eyes: the Lord is the weigher of spirits. Lay open thy works to the Lord: and thy thoughts shall be directed. The Lord hath made all things for himself: the wicked also for the evil day. Every proud man is an abomination to the Lord: though hand should be joined to hand, he is not innocent.

℟. O Lord, Father and God of my life, leave me not to evil counsels; give me not a proud look, but turn away from me an haughty mind, O Lord turn away from me concupiscence, * And give me not over unto an impudent and froward mind, O Lord!
℣. Leave me not, O Lord, lest mine ignorance increase, and my sins abound.
℟. And give me not over unto an impudent and froward mind, O Lord.

Lesson II
Prov 16:5-9
The beginning of a good way is to do justice; and this is more acceptable with God, than to offer sacrifices. By mercy and truth iniquity is redeemed: and by the fear of the Lord men depart from evil. When the ways of man shall please the Lord, he will convert even his enemies to peace. Better is a little with justice, than great revenues with iniquity. The heart of man disposeth his way: but the Lord must direct his steps.

℟. Great are thy judgments, O Lord, and thy words cannot be expressed. * Thou didst make thy people mighty and honourable.
℣. Thou broughtest them through the Red Sea, and leddest them through much water.
℟. Thou didst make thy people mighty and honourable.

Lesson III
Prov 16:10-15
Divination is in the lips of the king, his mouth shall not err in judgment. Weight and balance are judgments of the Lord: and his work all the weights of the bag. They that act wickedly are abominable to the king: for the throne is established by justice. Just lips are the delight of kings: he that speaketh right things shall be loved. The wrath of a king is as messengers of death: and the wise man will pacify it. In the cheerfulness of the king's countenance is life: and his clemency is like the latter rain.

℟. Lord, thine eyes behold all that is in the heart of man, and in thy book are they all written. * Man looketh on the outward appearance, but God looketh on the heart.
℣. For He searcheth all hearts, and understandeth all the imaginations of the thoughts.
℟. Man looketh on the outward appearance, but God looketh on the heart.
℣. Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, * and to the Holy Ghost.
℟. Man looketh on the outward appearance, but God looketh on the heart.
