Wednesday of the first week of August
[Tempora/081-3]

Lesson I
Lesson from the book of Proverbs
Prov 8:1-6
Doth not wisdom cry aloud, and prudence put forth her voice? Standing in the top of the highest places by the way, in the midst of the paths. Beside the gates of the city, in the very doors she speaketh, saying: O ye men, to you I call, and my voice is to the sons of men. O little ones, understand subtilty, and ye unwise, take notice. Hear, for I will speak of great things: and my lips shall be opened to preach right things.

℟. O Lord, Father and God of my life, leave me not to evil counsels; give me not a proud look, but turn away from me an haughty mind, O Lord turn away from me concupiscence, * And give me not over unto an impudent and froward mind, O Lord!
℣. Leave me not, O Lord, lest mine ignorance increase, and my sins abound.
℟. And give me not over unto an impudent and froward mind, O Lord.

Lesson II
Prov 8:7-11
My mouth shall meditate truth, and my lips shall hate wickedness. All my words are just, there is nothing wicked nor perverse in them. They are right to them that understand, and just to them that find knowledge. Receive my instruction, and not money: choose knowledge rather than gold. For wisdom is better than all the most precious things: and whatsoever may be desired cannot be compared to it.

℟. Great are thy judgments, O Lord, and thy words cannot be expressed. * Thou didst make thy people mighty and honourable.
℣. Thou broughtest them through the Red Sea, and leddest them through much water.
℟. Thou didst make thy people mighty and honourable.

Lesson III
Prov 8:12-17
I wisdom dwell in counsel, and am present in learned thoughts. The fear of the Lord hateth evil: I hate arrogance, and pride, and every wicked way, and a mouth with a double tongue. Counsel and equity is mine, prudence is mine, strength is mine. By me kings reign, and lawgivers decree just things, By me princes rule, and the mighty decree justice. I love them that love me: and they that in the morning early watch for me, shall find me.

℟. Lord, thine eyes behold all that is in the heart of man, and in thy book are they all written. * Man looketh on the outward appearance, but God looketh on the heart.
℣. For He searcheth all hearts, and understandeth all the imaginations of the thoughts.
℟. Man looketh on the outward appearance, but God looketh on the heart.
℣. Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, * and to the Holy Ghost.
℟. Man looketh on the outward appearance, but God looketh on the heart.
