Thursday of the first week of August
[Tempora/081-4]

Lesson I
Lesson from the book of Proverbs
Prov 10:1-5
A wise son maketh the father glad: but a foolish son is the sorrow of his mother. Treasures of wickedness shall profit nothing: but justice shall deliver from death. The Lord will not afflict the soul of the just with famine, and he will disappoint the deceitful practices of the wicked. The slothful hand hath wrought poverty: but the hand of the industrious getteth riches. He that trusteth to lies feedeth the winds: and the same runneth after birds that fly away. He that gathered in the harvest is a wise son: but he that snorteth in the summer, is the son of confusion.

℟. God possessed me in the beginning, before He made the earth, before He created the depths, before He caused the fountains of water to spring. * Before the mountains were settled, before there were any hills, did the Lord beget me.
℣. When He prepared the heavens, I was there with Him, ordering all things.
℟. Before the mountains were settled, before there were any hills, did the Lord beget me.

Lesson II
Prov 10:6-10
The blessing of the Lord is upon the head of the just: but iniquity covereth the mouth of the wicked. The memory of the just is with praises: and the name of the wicked shall rot. The wise of heart receiveth precepts: a fool is beaten with lips. He that walketh sincerely, walketh confidently: but he that perverteth his ways, shall be manifest. He that winketh with the eye shall cause sorrow: and the foolish in lips shall be beaten.

℟. I alone compassed the circuit of heaven, and walked on the waves of the sea. In every nation and in every people, I held the first place. * In the greatness of my strength have I trodden under my feet the necks of such as be haughty and proud.
℣. I dwell in the highest places, and my throne is in a cloudy pillar.
℟. In the greatness of my strength have I trodden under my feet the necks of such as be haughty and proud.

Lesson III
Prov 10:11-16
The mouth of the just is a vein of life: and the mouth of the wicked covereth iniquity. Hatred stirreth up strifes: and charity covereth all sins. In the lips of the wise is wisdom found: and a rod on the back of him that wanteth sense. Wise men lay up knowledge: but the mouth of the fool is next to confusion. The substance of a rich man is the city of his strength: the fear of the poor is their poverty. The work of the just is unto life: but the fruit of the wicked, unto sin.

℟. O send out wisdom from the throne of thy glory, O Lord, to be with me, and to labour with me, * That I may know at all times what is pleasing unto thee.
℣. Give me wisdom, O Lord, that sitteth by thy throne.
℟. That I may know at all times what is pleasing unto thee.
℣. Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, * and to the Holy Ghost.
℟. That I may know at all times what is pleasing unto thee.
