Monday of the second week of August
[Tempora/082-1]

Lesson I
Lesson from the book of Ecclesiastes
Eccl 2:1-4
I said in my heart: I will go, and abound with delights, and enjoy good things. And I saw that this also was vanity. Laughter I counted error: and to mirth I said: Why art thou vainly deceived? I thought in my heart, to withdraw my flesh from wine, that I might turn my mind to wisdom, and might avoid folly, till I might see what was profitable for the children of men: and what they ought to do under the sun, all the days of their life. I made me great works, I built me houses, and planted vineyards.

℟. O Lord, Father and Governor of my life, leave me not, lest I fall before mine adversaries, * and mine enemy rejoice over me.
℣. Take hold of shield and buckler, and stand up for mine help.
℟. Lest mine enemy rejoice over me.

Lesson II
Eccl 2:7-9
I got me menservants, and maidservants, and had a great family: and herds of oxen, and great flocks of sheep, above all that were before me in Jerusalem: I heaped together for myself silver and gold, and the wealth of kings, and provinces: I made me singing men, and singing women, and the delights of the sons of men, cups and vessels to serve to pour out wine: And I surpassed in riches all that were before me in Jerusalem: my wisdom also remained with me.

℟. Great are thy judgments, O Lord, and thy words cannot be expressed. * Thou didst make thy people mighty and honourable.
℣. Thou broughtest them through the Red Sea, and leddest them through much water.
℟. Thou didst make thy people mighty and honourable.

Lesson III
Eccl 2:10-11
And whatsoever my eyes desired, I refused them not: and I withheld not my heart from enjoying every pleasure, and delighting itself in the things which I had prepared: and esteemed this my portion, to make use of my own labour. And when I turned myself to all the works which my hands had wrought, and to the labours wherein I had laboured in vain, I saw in all things vanity, and vexation of mind, and that nothing was lasting under the sun.

℟. Lord, thine eyes behold all that is in the heart of man, and in thy book are they all written. * Man looketh on the outward appearance, but God looketh on the heart.
℣. For He searcheth all hearts, and understandeth all the imaginations of the thoughts.
℟. Man looketh on the outward appearance, but God looketh on the heart.
℣. Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, * and to the Holy Ghost.
℟. Man looketh on the outward appearance, but God looketh on the heart.
