Friday of the third week of August
[Tempora/083-5]

Lesson I
Lesson from the book of Wisdom
Wis 13:1-3
But all men are vain, in whom there is not the knowledge of God: and who by these good things that are seen, could not understand him that is, neither by attending to the works have acknowledged who was the workman: But have imagined either the fire, or the wind, or the swift air, or the circle of the stars, or the great water, or the sun and moon, to be the gods that rule the world. With whose beauty, if they, being delighted, took them to be gods: let them know how much the Lord of them is more beautiful than they: for the first author of beauty made all those things.

℟. Give me wisdom, O Lord, that sitteth by thy throne, and reject me not from among thy children. * For I am thy servant and son of thine handmaid.
℣. O send her out from the throne of thy glory, to be with me and to labour with me.
℟. For I am thy servant and son of thine handmaid.

Lesson II
Wis 13:4-7
Or if they admired their power and their effects, let them understand by them, that he that made them, is mightier than they: For by the greatness of the beauty, and of the creature, the creator of them may be seen, so as to be known thereby. But yet as to these they are less to be blamed. For they perhaps err, seeking God, and desirous to find him. For being conversant among his works, they search: and they are persuaded that the things are good which are seen.

℟. The fear of the Lord is the beginning of wisdom. * A good understanding have all they that do His commandments. His praise endureth for ever.
℣. Love is the keeping of her laws, for all wisdom is the fear of the Lord.
℟. A good understanding have all they that do His commandments. His praise endureth for ever.

Lesson III
Wis 13:8-10
But then again they are not to be pardoned. For if they were able to know so much as to make a judgment of the world: how did they not more easily find out the Lord thereof? But unhappy are they, and their hope is among the dead, who have called gods the works of the hands of men, gold and silver, the inventions of art, and the resemblances of beasts, or an unprofitable stone the work of an ancient hand.

℟. Lord, remove far from me vanity and lies. * Give me neither poverty nor riches, but feed me with food convenient for me.
℣. Two things have I required of thee; deny me them not before I die.
℟. Give me neither poverty nor riches, but feed me with food convenient for me.
℣. Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, * and to the Holy Ghost.
℟. Give me neither poverty nor riches, but feed me with food convenient for me.
