Tuesday of the third week of August
[Tempora/083-2]

Lesson I
Lesson from the book of Wisdom
Wis 6:1-5
Wisdom is better than strength, and a wise man is better than a strong man. Hear therefore, ye kings, and understand: learn, ye that are judges of the ends of the earth. Give ear, you that rule the people, and that please yourselves in multitudes of nations: For power is given you by the Lord, and strength by the most High, who will examine your works, and search out your thoughts: Because being ministers of his kingdom, you have not judged rightly, nor kept the law of justice, nor walked according to the will of God.

℟. My son, give me thine heart, and let thine eyes observe my ways. * For they shall be an ornament of grace unto thine head.
℣. My son, attend unto my wisdom, and incline thine ear unto my sayings.
℟. For they shall be an ornament of grace unto thine head.

Lesson II
Wis 6:6-9
Horribly and speedily will he appear to you: for a most severe judgment shall be for them that bear rule. For to him that is little, mercy is granted: but the mighty shall be mightily tormented. For God will not except any man's person, neither will he stand in awe of any man's greatness: for he made the little and the great, and he hath equally care of all. But a greater punishment is ready for the more mighty.

℟. The fear of the Lord is the beginning of wisdom. * A good understanding have all they that do His commandments. His praise endureth for ever.
℣. Love is the keeping of her laws, for all wisdom is the fear of the Lord.
℟. A good understanding have all they that do His commandments. His praise endureth for ever.

Lesson III
Wis 6:10-13
To you, therefore, O kings, are these my words, that you may learn wisdom, and not fall from it. For they that have kept just things justly, shall be justified: and they that have learned these things, shall find what to answer. Covet ye therefore my words, and love them, and you shall have instruction. Wisdom is glorious, and never fadeth away, and is easily seen by them that love her, and is found by them that seek her.

℟. Lord, remove far from me vanity and lies. * Give me neither poverty nor riches, but feed me with food convenient for me.
℣. Two things have I required of thee; deny me them not before I die.
℟. Give me neither poverty nor riches, but feed me with food convenient for me.
℣. Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, * and to the Holy Ghost.
℟. Give me neither poverty nor riches, but feed me with food convenient for me.
