Thursday of the third week of August
[Tempora/083-4]

Lesson I
Lesson from the book of Wisdom
Wis 9:13-19
For who among men is he that can know the counsel of God? or who can think what the will of God is? For the thoughts of mortal men are fearful, and our counsels uncertain. For the corruptible body is a load upon the soul, and the earthly habitation presseth down the mind that museth upon many things. And hardly do we guess aright at things that are upon earth: and with labour do we find the things that are before us. But the things that are in heaven, who shall search out? And who shall know thy thought, except thou give wisdom, and send thy Holy Spirit from above: And so the ways of them that are upon earth may be corrected, and men may learn the things that please thee? For by wisdom they were healed, whosoever have pleased thee, O Lord, from the beginning.

℟. God possessed me in the beginning, before He made the earth, before He created the depths, before He caused the fountains of water to spring. * Before the mountains were settled, before there were any hills, did the Lord beget me.
℣. When He prepared the heavens, I was there with Him, ordering all things.
℟. Before the mountains were settled, before there were any hills, did the Lord beget me.

Lesson II
Wis 10:1-5
She preserved him, that was first formed by God the father of the world, when he was created alone, And she brought him out of his sin, and gave him power to govern all things. But when the unjust went away from her in his anger, he perished by the fury wherewith he murdered his brother. For whose cause, when water destroyed the earth, wisdom healed it again, directing the course of the just by contemptible wood. Moreover when the nations had conspired together to consent to wickedness, she knew the just, and preserved him without blame to God, and kept him strong against the compassion for his son.

℟. I alone compassed the circuit of heaven, and walked on the waves of the sea. In every nation and in every people, I held the first place. * In the greatness of my strength have I trodden under my feet the necks of such as be haughty and proud.
℣. I dwell in the highest places, and my throne is in a cloudy pillar.
℟. In the greatness of my strength have I trodden under my feet the necks of such as be haughty and proud.

Lesson III
Wis 10:6-9
She delivered the just man who fled from the wicked that were perishing, when the fire came down upon Pentapolis: Whose land for a testimony of their wickedness is desolate, and smoketh to this day, and the trees bear fruits that ripen not, and a standing pillar of salt is a monument of an incredulous soul. For regarding not wisdom, they did not only slip in this, that they were ignorant of good things, but they left also unto men a memorial of their folly, so that in the things in which they sinned, they could not so much as lie hid. But wisdom hath delivered from sorrow them that attend upon her.

℟. O send out wisdom from the throne of thy glory, O Lord, to be with me, and to labour with me, * That I may know at all times what is pleasing unto thee.
℣. Give me wisdom, O Lord, that sitteth by thy throne.
℟. That I may know at all times what is pleasing unto thee.
℣. Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, * and to the Holy Ghost.
℟. That I may know at all times what is pleasing unto thee.
