Wednesday of the third week of August
[Tempora/083-3]

Lesson I
Lesson from the book of Wisdom
Wis 7:1-6
I myself also am a mortal man, like all others, and of the race of him, that was first made of the earth, and in the womb of my mother I was fashioned to be flesh. In the time of ten months I was compacted in blood, of the seed of man, and the pleasure of sleep concurring. And being born I drew in the common air, and fell upon the earth, that is made alike, and the first voice which I uttered was crying, as all others do. I was nursed in swaddling clothes, and with great cares. For none of the kings had any other beginning of birth. For all men have one entrance into life, and the like going out.

℟. O Lord, Father and God of my life, leave me not to evil counsels; give me not a proud look, but turn away from me an haughty mind, O Lord turn away from me concupiscence, * And give me not over unto an impudent and froward mind, O Lord!
℣. Leave me not, O Lord, lest mine ignorance increase, and my sins abound.
℟. And give me not over unto an impudent and froward mind, O Lord.

Lesson II
Wis 7:7-10
Wherefore I wished, and understanding was given me: and I called upon God, and the spirit of wisdom came upon me: And I preferred her before kingdoms and thrones, and esteemed riches nothing in comparison of her. Neither did I compare unto her any precious stone: for all gold in comparison of her, is as a little sand, and silver in respect to her shall be counted as clay. I loved her above health and beauty, and chose to have her instead of light: for her light cannot be put out.

℟. Great are thy judgments, O Lord, and thy words cannot be expressed. * Thou didst make thy people mighty and honourable.
℣. Thou broughtest them through the Red Sea, and leddest them through much water.
℟. Thou didst make thy people mighty and honourable.

Lesson III
Wis 7:11-14
Now all good things came to me together with her, and innumerable riches through her hands, And I rejoiced in all these: for this wisdom went before me, and I knew not that she was the mother of them all. Which I have learned without guile, and communicate without envy, and her riches I hide not. For she is an infinite treasure to men! which they that use, become the friends of God, being commended for the gift of discipline.

℟. Lord, thine eyes behold all that is in the heart of man, and in thy book are they all written. * Man looketh on the outward appearance, but God looketh on the heart.
℣. For He searcheth all hearts, and understandeth all the imaginations of the thoughts.
℟. Man looketh on the outward appearance, but God looketh on the heart.
℣. Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, * and to the Holy Ghost.
℟. Man looketh on the outward appearance, but God looketh on the heart.
