Tuesday of the fourth week of August
[Tempora/084-2]

Lesson I
Lesson from the book of Ecclesiasticus
Sir 2:1-3
Son, when thou comest to the service of God, stand in justice and in fear, and prepare thy soul for temptation. Humble thy heart, and endure: incline thy ear, and receive the words of understanding: and make not haste in the time of clouds. Wait on God with patience: join thyself to God, and endure, that thy life may be increased in the latter end.

℟. My son, give me thine heart, and let thine eyes observe my ways. * For they shall be an ornament of grace unto thine head.
℣. My son, attend unto my wisdom, and incline thine ear unto my sayings.
℟. For they shall be an ornament of grace unto thine head.

Lesson II
Sir 2:4-6
Take all that shall be brought upon thee: and in thy sorrow endure, and in thy humiliation keep patience. For gold and silver are tried in the fire, but acceptable men in the furnace of humiliation. Believe God, and he will recover thee: and direct thy way, and trust in him. Keep his fear, and grow old therein.

℟. The fear of the Lord is the beginning of wisdom. * A good understanding have all they that do His commandments. His praise endureth for ever.
℣. Love is the keeping of her laws, for all wisdom is the fear of the Lord.
℟. A good understanding have all they that do His commandments. His praise endureth for ever.

Lesson III
Sir 2:7-12
Ye that fear the Lord, wait for his mercy: and go not aside from him, lest ye fall. Ye that fear the Lord, believe him: and your reward shall not be made void. Ye that fear the Lord, hope in him: and mercy shall come to you for your delight. Ye that fear the Lord, love him, and your hearts shall be enlightened. My children behold the generations of men: and know ye that no one hath hoped in the Lord, and hath been confounded. For who hath continued in his commandment, and hath been forsaken? or who hath called upon him, and he despised him?

℟. Lord, remove far from me vanity and lies. * Give me neither poverty nor riches, but feed me with food convenient for me.
℣. Two things have I required of thee; deny me them not before I die.
℟. Give me neither poverty nor riches, but feed me with food convenient for me.
℣. Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, * and to the Holy Ghost.
℟. Give me neither poverty nor riches, but feed me with food convenient for me.
