Friday of the fourth week of August
[Tempora/084-5]

Lesson I
Lesson from the book of Ecclesiasticus
Sir 4:1-4
Son, defraud not the poor of alms, and turn not away thy eyes from the poor. Despise not the hungry soul: and provoke not the poor in his want. Afflict not the heart of the needy, and defer not to give to him that is in distress. Reject not the petition of the afflicted: and turn not away thy face from the needy.

℟. Give me wisdom, O Lord, that sitteth by thy throne, and reject me not from among thy children. * For I am thy servant and son of thine handmaid.
℣. O send her out from the throne of thy glory, to be with me and to labour with me.
℟. For I am thy servant and son of thine handmaid.

Lesson II
Sir 4:5-7
Turn not away thy eyes from the poor for fear of anger: and leave not to them that ask of thee to curse thee behind thy back. For the prayer of him that curseth thee in the bitterness of his soul, shall be heard, for he that made him will hear him. Make thyself affable to the congregation of the poor, and humble thy soul to the ancient, and bow thy head to a great man

℟. The fear of the Lord is the beginning of wisdom. * A good understanding have all they that do His commandments. His praise endureth for ever.
℣. Love is the keeping of her laws, for all wisdom is the fear of the Lord.
℟. A good understanding have all they that do His commandments. His praise endureth for ever.

Lesson III
Sir 4:8-11
Bow down thy ear cheerfully to the poor, and pay what thou owest, and answer him peaceable words with mildness. Deliver him that suffereth wrong out of the hand of the proud: and be not fainthearted in thy soul. In judging be merciful to the fatherless as a father, and as a husband to their mother. And thou shalt be as the obedient son of the most High, and he will have mercy on thee more than a mother.

℟. Lord, remove far from me vanity and lies. * Give me neither poverty nor riches, but feed me with food convenient for me.
℣. Two things have I required of thee; deny me them not before I die.
℟. Give me neither poverty nor riches, but feed me with food convenient for me.
℣. Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, * and to the Holy Ghost.
℟. Give me neither poverty nor riches, but feed me with food convenient for me.
