Saturday of the fifth week of August
[Tempora/085-6]

Lesson I
Lesson from the book of Ecclesiasticus
Sir 32:1-5
Have they made thee ruler? be not lifted up: be among them as one of them. Have care of them, and so sit down, and when thou hast acquitted thyself of all thy charge, take thy place: That thou mayst rejoice for them, and receive a crown as an ornament of grace, and get the honour of the contribution. Speak, thou that art elder: for it becometh thee, To speak the first word with careful knowledge, and hinder not music.

℟. O Lord, Father and God of my life, leave me not to evil counsels; give me not a proud look, but turn away from me an haughty mind, O Lord turn away from me concupiscence, * And give me not over unto an impudent and froward mind, O Lord!
℣. Leave me not, O Lord, lest mine ignorance increase, and my sins abound.
℟. And give me not over unto an impudent and froward mind, O Lord.

Lesson II
Sir 32:6-11
Where there is no hearing, pour not out words, and be not lifted up out of season with thy wisdom. A concert of music in a banquet of wine is as a carbuncle set in gold. As a signet of an emerald in a work of gold: so is the melody of music with pleasant and moderate wine. Hear in silence, and for thy reverence good grace shall come to thee. Young man, scarcely speak in thy own cause. If thou be asked twice, let thy answer be short.

℟. Great are thy judgments, O Lord, and thy words cannot be expressed. * Thou didst make thy people mighty and honourable.
℣. Thou broughtest them through the Red Sea, and leddest them through much water.
℟. Thou didst make thy people mighty and honourable.

Lesson III
Sir 32:12-17
In many things be as if thou wert ignorant, and hear in silence and withal seeking. In the company of great men take not upon thee: and when the ancients are present, speak not much. Before a storm goeth lightning: and before shamefacedness goeth favour: and for thy reverence good grace shall come to thee. And at the time of rising be not slack: but be first to run home to thy house, and there withdraw thyself, and there take thy pastime. And do what thou hast a mind, but not in sin or proud speech. And for all these things bless the Lord, that made thee, and that replenisheth thee with all his good things.

℟. Lord, thine eyes behold all that is in the heart of man, and in thy book are they all written. * Man looketh on the outward appearance, but God looketh on the heart.
℣. For He searcheth all hearts, and understandeth all the imaginations of the thoughts.
℟. Man looketh on the outward appearance, but God looketh on the heart.
℣. Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, * and to the Holy Ghost.
℟. Man looketh on the outward appearance, but God looketh on the heart.
