Wednesday of the fifth week of August
[Tempora/085-3]

Lesson I
Lesson from the book of Ecclesiasticus
Sir 13:1-6
He that toucheth pitch, shall be defiled with it: and he that hath fellowship with the proud, shall put on pride. He shall take a burden upon him that hath fellowship with one more honourable than himself. And have no fellowship with one that is richer than thyself. What agreement shall the earthen pot have with the kettle? for if they knock one against the other, it shall be broken. The rich man hath done wrong, and yet he will fume: but the poor is wronged and must hold his peace. If thou give, he will make use of thee: and if thou have nothing, he will forsake thee. If thou have any thing, he will live with thee, and will make thee bare, and he will not be sorry for thee.

℟. O Lord, Father and God of my life, leave me not to evil counsels; give me not a proud look, but turn away from me an haughty mind, O Lord turn away from me concupiscence, * And give me not over unto an impudent and froward mind, O Lord!
℣. Leave me not, O Lord, lest mine ignorance increase, and my sins abound.
℟. And give me not over unto an impudent and froward mind, O Lord.

Lesson II
Sir 13:9-15
Humble thyself to God, and wait for his hands. Beware that thou be not deceived Into folly, and be humbled. Be not lowly in thy wisdom, lest being humbled thou be deceived into folly. If thou be invited by one that is mightier, withdraw thyself: for so he will invite thee the more. Be not troublesome to him, lest thou be put back: and keep not far from him, lest thou be forgotten. Affect not to speak with him as an equal: and believe not his many words: for by much talk he will sift thee, and smiling will examine thee concerning thy secrets. His cruel mind will lay up thy words: and he will not spare to do thee hurt, and to cast thee into prison.

℟. Great are thy judgments, O Lord, and thy words cannot be expressed. * Thou didst make thy people mighty and honourable.
℣. Thou broughtest them through the Red Sea, and leddest them through much water.
℟. Thou didst make thy people mighty and honourable.

Lesson III
Sir 13:16-22
Take heed to thyself, and attend diligently to what thou hearest: for thou walkest in danger of thy ruin. When thou hearest those things, see as it were in sleep, and thou shalt awake. Love God all thy life, and call upon him for thy salvation. Every beast loveth its like: so also every man him that is nearest to himself. All flesh shall consort with the like to itself, and every man shall associate himself to his like. If the wolf shall at any time have fellowship with the lamb, so the sinner with the just. What fellowship hath a holy man with a dog, or what part hath the rich with the poor?

℟. Lord, thine eyes behold all that is in the heart of man, and in thy book are they all written. * Man looketh on the outward appearance, but God looketh on the heart.
℣. For He searcheth all hearts, and understandeth all the imaginations of the thoughts.
℟. Man looketh on the outward appearance, but God looketh on the heart.
℣. Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, * and to the Holy Ghost.
℟. Man looketh on the outward appearance, but God looketh on the heart.
