Monday of the fifth week of August
[Tempora/085-1]

Lesson I
Lesson from the book of Ecclesiasticus
Sir 7:1-5
Do no evils, and no evils shall lay hold of thee. Depart from the unjust, and evils shall depart from thee. My son, sow not evils in the furrows of injustice, and thou shalt not reap them sevenfold. Seek not of the Lord a pre-eminence, nor of the king the seat of honour. Justify not thyself before God, for he knoweth the heart: and desire not to appear wise before the king.

℟. O Lord, Father and Governor of my life, leave me not, lest I fall before mine adversaries, * and mine enemy rejoice over me.
℣. Take hold of shield and buckler, and stand up for mine help.
℟. Lest mine enemy rejoice over me.

Lesson II
Sir 7:6-10
Seek not to be made a judge, unless thou have strength enough to extirpate iniquities: lest thou fear the person of the powerful, and lay a stumblingblock for thy integrity. Offend not against the multitude of a city, neither cast thyself in upon the people, Nor bind sin to sin: for even in one thou shalt not be unpunished. Be not fainthearted in thy mind: Neglect not to pray, and to give alms.

℟. Great are thy judgments, O Lord, and thy words cannot be expressed. * Thou didst make thy people mighty and honourable.
℣. Thou broughtest them through the Red Sea, and leddest them through much water.
℟. Thou didst make thy people mighty and honourable.

Lesson III
Sir 7:11-15
Say not: God will have respect to the multitude of my gifts, and when I offer to the most high God, he will accept my offerings. Laugh no man to scorn in the bitterness of his soul: for there is one that humbleth and exalteth, God who seeth all. Devise not a lie against thy brother: neither do the like against thy friend. Be not willing to make any manner of lie: for the custom thereof is not good. Be not full of words in a multitude of ancients, and repeat not the word in thy prayer.

℟. Lord, thine eyes behold all that is in the heart of man, and in thy book are they all written. * Man looketh on the outward appearance, but God looketh on the heart.
℣. For He searcheth all hearts, and understandeth all the imaginations of the thoughts.
℟. Man looketh on the outward appearance, but God looketh on the heart.
℣. Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, * and to the Holy Ghost.
℟. Man looketh on the outward appearance, but God looketh on the heart.
