Wednesday of the first week of September
[Tempora/091-3]

Lesson I
Lesson from the book of Job
Job 3:1-5
After this Job opened his mouth, and cursed his day, and he said: Let the day perish wherein I was born, and the night in which it was said: A man child is conceived. Let that day be turned into darkness, let not God regard it from above, and let not the light shine upon it. Let darkness, and the shadow of death cover it, let a mist overspread it, and let it be wrapped up in bitterness.

℟. O that Thou wouldest hide me in the grave; that Thou wouldest keep me secret, until thy wrath be past, even thine, O Lord, Thou That alone art God; * That Thou wouldest appoint me a set time, and remember me!
℣. Are thy days as the days of man, that Thou inquirest after mine iniquity, and there is none that can deliver out of thine hand.
℟. That Thou wouldest appoint me a set time, and remember me!

Lesson II
Job 3:6-10
Let a darksome whirlwind seize upon that night, let it not be counted in the days of the year, nor numbered in the months. Let that night be solitary, and not worthy of praise. Let them curse it who curse the day. who are ready to raise up a leviathan: Let the stars be darkened with the mist thereof: let it expect light and not see it, nor the rising of the dawning of the day: Because it shut not up the doors of the womb that bore me, nor took away evils from my eyes.

℟. O that my sins, whereby I have deserved wrath; * And the calamity whereunder I suffer, were laid in the balances together.
℣. For now it would appear heavier than the sand of the sea, therefore also my words are full of sorrow.
℟. And the calamity, whereunder I suffer, were laid in the balances together.

Lesson III
Job 3:11-16
Why did I not die in the womb, why did I not perish when I came out of the belly? Why received upon the knees? why suckled at the breasts? For now I should have been asleep and still, and should have rest in my sleep. With kings and consuls of the earth, who build themselves solitudes: Or with princes, that possess gold, and All their houses with silver: Or as a hidden untimely birth I should not be, or as they that being conceived have not seen the light.

℟. Why do ye argue against the words of truth? Do ye imagine words to reprove me and strive to confound one that is your friend? * Nevertheless, finish that ye have in mind.
℣. Judge that which is just, and ye shall find no iniquity in my tongue.
℟. Nevertheless, finish that ye have in mind.
℣. Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, * and to the Holy Ghost.
℟. Nevertheless, finish that ye have in mind.
