Tuesday of the first week of September
[Tempora/091-2]

Lesson I
Lesson from the book of Job
Job 2:1-5
And it came to pass, when on a certain day the sons of God came, and stood before the Lord, and Satan came among them, and stood in his sight, That the Lord said to Satan: Whence comest thou? And he answered and said: I have gone round about the earth, and walked through it. And the Lord said to Satan: Hast thou considered my servant Job, that there is none like him in the earth, a man simple, and upright, and fearing God, and avoiding evil, and still keeping his innocence. But thou hast moved me against him, that I should afflict him without cause. And Satan answered, and said: Skin for skin, and all that a man hath he will give for his life: But put forth thy hand, and touch his bone and his flesh, and then thou shalt see that he will bless thee to thy face.

℟. My flesh is clothed with worms and clods of dust. My skin is dry and drawn together. * Remember me, O Lord, for my life is wind.
℣. My days are swifter than a weaver's shuttle, and are spent without hope.
℟. Remember me, Lord, for my life is wind.

Lesson II
Job 2:6-10
And the Lord said to Satan: Behold he is in thy hand, but yet save his life. So Satan went forth from the presence of the Lord, and struck Job with a very grievous ulcer, from the sole of the foot even to the top of his head: And he took a potsherd and scraped the corrupt matter, sitting on a dunghill. And his wife said to him: Dost thou still continue in thy simplicity? Bless God and die. And he said to her: Thou hast; spoken like one of the foolish women: if we have received good things at the hand of God, why should we not receive evil? In all these things Job did not sin with his lips.

℟. My days are few, and in a short while they will be ended. Let me alone, then, O Lord, that I may bewail my sorrow a little; * Before I go to the land of darkness and of the shadow of death.
℣. Thine hands, O Lord, have made me, and fashioned me together round about, and yet dost Thou forthwith destroy me.
℟. Before I go to the land of darkness and of the shadow of death.

Lesson III
Job 2:11-13
Now when Job's three friends heard all the evil that had befallen him, they came every one from his own place, Alphas the Themanite, and Baldad the Suhite, and Sophar the Naamathite. For they had made an appointment to come together and visit him, and comfort him. And when they had lifted up their eyes afar off, they knew him not, and crying out they wept, and rending their garments they sprinkled dust upon their heads towards heaven. And they sat with him on the ground seven days and seven nights, and no man spoke to him a word: for they saw that his grief was very great.

℟. Hide not thy face from me, O Lord. Withdraw not thine hand far from me, * And let not thy dread make me afraid.
℣. O Lord, correct me but in mercy not in thine anger, lest Thou bring me to nothing.
℟. And let not thy dread make me afraid.
℣. Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, * and to the Holy Ghost.
℟. And let not thy dread make me afraid.
