Thursday of the first week of September
[Tempora/091-4]

Lesson I
Lesson from the book of Job
Job 4:1-6
Then Eliphaz the Themanite answered, and said: If we begin to speak to thee, perhaps thou wilt take it ill, but who can withhold the words he hath conceived? Behold thou hast taught many, and thou hast strengthened the weary hands: thy words have confirmed them that were staggering, and thou hast strengthened the trembling knees: But now the scourge is come upon thee, and thou faintest: it hath touched thee, and thou art troubled. Where is thy fear, thy fortitude, thy patience, and the perfection of thy ways?

℟. What shall we receive good at the hand of God, and shall we not receive evil? * The Lord gave and the Lord hath taken away. As the Lord hath pleased, so hath it befallen. Blessed be the Name of the Lord.
℣. Naked came I out of my mother's womb, and naked shall I return thither.
℟. The Lord gave and the Lord hath taken away. As the Lord hath pleased, so hath it befallen. Blessed be the Name of the Lord.

Lesson II
Job 4:7-11
Remember, I pray thee, who ever perished being innocent? or when were the just destroyed? On the contrary I have seen those who work iniquity, and sow sorrows, and reap them, Perishing by the blast of God, and consumed by the spirit of his wrath. The roaring of the lion, and the voice of the lioness, and the teeth of the whelps of lions are broken: The tiger hath perished for want of prey, and the young lions are scattered abroad.

℟. My sighing cometh before I eat, and my roarings are poured out like the waters, for the thing which I greatly feared is come upon me, and that which I was afraid of is come unto me. Was not I silent? Held not I my peace? Was not I at rest? * And trouble came.
℣. Behold, I cannot help myself, and they that were needful unto me have forsaken me.
℟. And trouble came.

Lesson III
Job 4:12-18
Now there was a word spoken to me in private, and my ears by stealth as it were received the veins of its whisper. In the horror of a vision by night, when deep sleep is wont to hold men, Fear seized upon me, and trembling, and all my bones were affrighted: And when a spirit passed before me, the hair of my flesh stood up. There stood one whose countenance I knew not, an image before my eyes, and I heard the voice as it were of a gentle wind: Shall man be justified in comparison of God, or shall a man be more pure than his maker? Behold they that serve him are not steadfast, and in his angels he found wickedness:

℟. Why do ye argue against the words of truth? Do ye imagine words to reprove me and strive to confound one that is your friend? * Nevertheless, finish that ye have in mind.
℣. Judge that which is just, and ye shall find no iniquity in my tongue.
℟. Nevertheless, finish that ye have in mind.
℣. Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, * and to the Holy Ghost.
℟. Nevertheless, finish that ye have in mind.
