Monday of the first week of September
[Tempora/091-1]

Lesson I
Lesson from the book of Job
Job 1:13-16
Now upon a certain day when his sons and daughters were eating and drinking wine in the house of their eldest brother, There came a messenger to Job, and said: The oxen were ploughing, and the asses feeding beside them, And the Sabeans rushed in, and took all away, and slew the servants with the sword, and I alone have escaped to tell thee. And while he was yet speaking, another came, and said: The fire of God fell from heaven, and striking the sheep and the servants, hath consumed them, and I alone have escaped to tell thee.

℟. My harp is turned to mourning, and my organ into the voice of them that weep. * Let me alone, O Lord, for my days are vanity.
℣. My skin is black upon me, and my bones are burned with heat.
℟. Let me alone, O Lord, for my days are vanity.

Lesson II
Job 1:17-19
And while he also was yet speaking, there came another, and said: The Chaldeans made three troops, and have fallen upon the camels, and taken them, moreover they have slain the servants with the sword, and I alone have escaped to tell thee. He was yet speaking, and behold another came in, and said: thy sons and daughters were eating and drinking wine in the house of their elder brother: A violent wind came on a sudden from the side of the desert, and shook the four corners of the house, and it fell upon thy children and they are dead, and I alone have escaped to fell thee.

℟. O that my sins, whereby I have deserved wrath; * And the calamity whereunder I suffer, were laid in the balances together.
℣. For now it would appear heavier than the sand of the sea, therefore also my words are full of sorrow.
℟. And the calamity, whereunder I suffer, were laid in the balances together.

Lesson III
Job 1:20-22
Then Job rose up, and rent his garments, and having shaven his head fell down upon the ground and worshipped, And said: Naked came I out of my mother's womb, and naked shall I return thither: the Lord gave, and the Lord hath taken away: as it hath pleased the Lord so is it done: blessed be the name of the Lord. In all these things Job sinned not by his lips, nor spoke he any foolish thing against God.

℟. Why do ye argue against the words of truth? Do ye imagine words to reprove me and strive to confound one that is your friend? * Nevertheless, finish that ye have in mind.
℣. Judge that which is just, and ye shall find no iniquity in my tongue.
℟. Nevertheless, finish that ye have in mind.
℣. Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, * and to the Holy Ghost.
℟. Nevertheless, finish that ye have in mind.
