Saturday of the first week of September
[Tempora/091-6]

Lesson I
Lesson from the book of Job
Job 7:1-4
The life of man upon earth is a warfare, and his days are like the days of a hireling. As a servant longeth for the shade, as the hireling looketh for the end of his work; So I also have had empty months, and have numbered to myself wearisome nights. If I lie down to sleep, I shall say: When shall I arise? and again I shall look for the evening, and shall be filled with sorrows even till darkness.

℟. O that Thou wouldest hide me in the grave; that Thou wouldest keep me secret, until thy wrath be past, even thine, O Lord, Thou That alone art God; * That Thou wouldest appoint me a set time, and remember me!
℣. Are thy days as the days of man, that Thou inquirest after mine iniquity, and there is none that can deliver out of thine hand.
℟. That Thou wouldest appoint me a set time, and remember me!

Lesson II
Job 7:5-8
My flesh is clothed with rottenness and the filth of dust, my skin is withered and drawn together. My days have passed more swiftly than the web is cut by the weaver, and are consumed without any hope. Remember that my life is but wind, and my eyes shall not return to see good things. Nor shall the sight of man behold me: thy eyes are upon me, and I shall be no more.

℟. O that my sins, whereby I have deserved wrath; * And the calamity whereunder I suffer, were laid in the balances together.
℣. For now it would appear heavier than the sand of the sea, therefore also my words are full of sorrow.
℟. And the calamity, whereunder I suffer, were laid in the balances together.
℣. Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, * and to the Holy Ghost.
℟. And the calamity, whereunder I suffer, were laid in the balances together.

Lesson III
Job 7:9-12
As a cloud is consumed, and passeth away: so he that shall go down to hell shall not come up. Nor shall he return any more into his house, neither shall his place know him any more. Wherefore I will not spare my month, I will speak in the affliction of my spirit: I will talk with the bitterness of my soul. Am I a sea, or a whale, that thou hast enclosed me in a prison?

℟. Why do ye argue against the words of truth? Do ye imagine words to reprove me and strive to confound one that is your friend? * Nevertheless, finish that ye have in mind.
℣. Judge that which is just, and ye shall find no iniquity in my tongue.
℟. Nevertheless, finish that ye have in mind.
℣. Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, * and to the Holy Ghost.
℟. Nevertheless, finish that ye have in mind.
