Friday of the first week of September
[Tempora/091-5]

Lesson I
Lesson from the book of Job
Job 6:1-4
But Job answered, and said: O that my sins, whereby I have deserved wrath, and the calamity that I suffer, were weighed in a balance. As the sand of the sea this would appear heavier: therefore my words are full of sorrow: For the arrows of the Lord are in me, the rage whereof drinketh up my spirit, and the terrors of the Lord war against me.

℟. My flesh is clothed with worms and clods of dust. My skin is dry and drawn together. * Remember me, O Lord, for my life is wind.
℣. My days are swifter than a weaver's shuttle, and are spent without hope.
℟. Remember me, Lord, for my life is wind.

Lesson II
Job 6:5-7
Will the wild ass bray when he hath grass? or will the ox low when he standeth before a full manger? Or can an unsavoury thing be eaten, that is not seasoned with salt? or can a man taste that which when tasted bringeth death? The things which before my soul would not touch, now, through anguish are my meats.

℟. My days are few, and in a short while they will be ended. Let me alone, then, O Lord, that I may bewail my sorrow a little; * Before I go to the land of darkness and of the shadow of death.
℣. Thine hands, O Lord, have made me, and fashioned me together round about, and yet dost Thou forthwith destroy me.
℟. Before I go to the land of darkness and of the shadow of death.

Lesson III
Job 6:8-13
Who will grant that my request may come: and that God may give me what I look for? And that he that hath begun may destroy me, that he may let loose his hand, and cut me off? And that this may be my comfort, that afflicting me with sorrow, he spare not, nor I contradict the words of the Holy One. For what is my strength, that I can hold out? or what is my end that I should keep patience? My strength is not the strength of stones, nor is my flesh of brass. Behold there is no help for me in myself, and my familiar friends also are departed from me.

℟. Hide not thy face from me, O Lord. Withdraw not thine hand far from me, * And let not thy dread make me afraid.
℣. O Lord, correct me but in mercy not in thine anger, lest Thou bring me to nothing.
℟. And let not thy dread make me afraid.
℣. Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, * and to the Holy Ghost.
℟. And let not thy dread make me afraid.
