Saturday of the second week of September
[Tempora/092-6]

Lesson I
Lesson from the book of Job
Job 42:7-8
And after the Lord had spoken these words to Job, he said to Eliphaz the Themanite: My wrath is kindled against thee, and against thy two friends, because you have not spoken the thing that is right before me, as my servant Job hath. Take unto you therefore seven oxen, and seven rams, and go to my servant Job, and offer for yourselves a holocaust and my servant Job shall pray for you; his face I will accept, that folly be not imputed to you for you have not spoken right things before me, as my servant Job hath.

℟. This day was the Blessed Virgin Mary born of the lineage of David. * The same is she through whom the salvation of the world hath been manifested before the eyes of all believers. This is she whose glorious life hath given light to the world.
℣. Let us keep with rejoicing the Birthday of the Blessed Virgin Mary.
℟. The same is she through whom the salvation of the world hath been manifested before the eyes of all believers. This is she whose glorious life hath given light to the world.

Lesson II
Job 42:9-11
So Eliphaz the Themanite, and Baldad the Suhite, and Sophar the Naamathite went, and did as the Lord had spoken to them, and the Lord accepted the face of Job. The Lord also was turned at the penance of Job, when he prayed for his friends. And the Lord gave Job twice as much as he had before. And all his brethren came to him, and all his sisters, and all that knew him before, and they ate bread with him in his house and bemoaned him, and comforted him upon all the evil that God had brought upon him. And every man gave him one ewe, and one earring of gold.

℟. Let us keep right heartily the Birthday of the Most Blessed Virgin Mary, * That she may pray for us to our Lord Jesus Christ.
℣. Let us keep with right hearty rejoicing the Birthday of the Blessed Virgin Mary.
℟. That she may pray for us to our Lord Jesus Christ.
℣. Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, * and to the Holy Ghost.
℟. That she may pray for us to our Lord Jesus Christ.

Lesson III
Job 42:12-16
And the Lord blessed the latter end of Job more than his beginning. And he had fourteen thousand sheep, and six thousand camels, and a thousand yoke of oxen, and a thousand she asses. And he had seven sons, and three daughters. And he called the names of one Dies, and the name of the second Cassia, and the name of the third Cornustibil. And there were not found in all the earth women so beautiful as the daughters of Job and their father gave them inheritance among their brethren. And Job lived after these things, a hundred and forty years, and he saw his children, and his children's children, unto the fourth generation, and he died an old man, and full of days.

℟. Why do ye argue against the words of truth? Do ye imagine words to reprove me and strive to confound one that is your friend? * Nevertheless, finish that ye have in mind.
℣. Judge that which is just, and ye shall find no iniquity in my tongue.
℟. Nevertheless, finish that ye have in mind.
℣. Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, * and to the Holy Ghost.
℟. Nevertheless, finish that ye have in mind.
