Tuesday of the second week of September
[Tempora/092-2]

Lesson I
Lesson from the book of Job
Job 28:12-16
But where is wisdom to be found, and where is the place of understanding? Man knoweth not the price thereof, neither is it found in the land of them that live in delights. The depth saith: It is not in me: and the sea saith: It is not with me. The finest gold shall not purchase it, neither shall silver be weighed in exchange for it. It shall not be compared with the dyed colours of India, or with the most precious stone sardonyx, or the sapphire.

℟. My flesh is clothed with worms and clods of dust. My skin is dry and drawn together. * Remember me, O Lord, for my life is wind.
℣. My days are swifter than a weaver's shuttle, and are spent without hope.
℟. Remember me, Lord, for my life is wind.

Lesson II
Job 28:17-22
Gold or crystal cannot equal it, neither shall any vessels of gold be changed for it. High and eminent things shall not be mentioned in comparison of it: but wisdom is drawn out of secret places. The topaz of Ethiopia shall not be equal to it, neither shall it be compared to the cleanest dyeing. Whence then cometh wisdom? and where is the place of understanding? It is hid from the eyes of all living. and the fowls of the air know it not. Destruction and death have said: With our ears we have heard the fame thereof.

℟. My days are few, and in a short while they will be ended. Let me alone, then, O Lord, that I may bewail my sorrow a little; * Before I go to the land of darkness and of the shadow of death.
℣. Thine hands, O Lord, have made me, and fashioned me together round about, and yet dost Thou forthwith destroy me.
℟. Before I go to the land of darkness and of the shadow of death.

Lesson III
Job 28:23-28
God understandeth the way of it, and he knoweth the place thereof. For he beholdeth the ends of the world: and looketh on all things that are under heaven. Who made a weight for the winds and weighed the waters by measure. When he gave a law for the rain, and a way for the sounding storms. Then he saw it, and declared, and prepared, and searched it. And he said to man: Behold the fear of the Lord, that is wisdom: and to depart from evil, is understanding.

℟. Hide not thy face from me, O Lord. Withdraw not thine hand far from me, * And let not thy dread make me afraid.
℣. O Lord, correct me but in mercy not in thine anger, lest Thou bring me to nothing.
℟. And let not thy dread make me afraid.
℣. Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, * and to the Holy Ghost.
℟. And let not thy dread make me afraid.
