Friday of the second week of September
[Tempora/092-5]

Lesson I
Lesson from the book of Job
Job 40:1-5
And the Lord answering Job out of the whirlwind, said: Gird up thy loins like a man I will ask thee, and do thou tell me. Wilt thou make void my judgment and condemn me, that thou mayst be justified? And hast thou an arm like God, and canst thou thunder with a voice like him? Clothe thyself with beauty, and set thyself up on high and be glorious, and put on goodly garments.

℟. My flesh is clothed with worms and clods of dust. My skin is dry and drawn together. * Remember me, O Lord, for my life is wind.
℣. My days are swifter than a weaver's shuttle, and are spent without hope.
℟. Remember me, Lord, for my life is wind.

Lesson II
Job 40:6-11
Scatter the proud in thy indignation, and behold every arrogant man, and humble him. Look on all that are proud, and confound them, and crush the wicked in their place. Hide them in the dust together, and plunge their faces into the pit. Then I will confess that thy right hand is able to save thee. Behold behemoth whom I made with thee, he eateth grass like an ox. His strength is in his loins, and his force in the navel of his belly.

℟. My days are few, and in a short while they will be ended. Let me alone, then, O Lord, that I may bewail my sorrow a little; * Before I go to the land of darkness and of the shadow of death.
℣. Thine hands, O Lord, have made me, and fashioned me together round about, and yet dost Thou forthwith destroy me.
℟. Before I go to the land of darkness and of the shadow of death.

Lesson III
Job 42:1-6
Then Job answered the Lord, and said: I know that thou canst do all things, and no thought is hid from thee. Who is this that hideth counsel without knowledge? Therefore I have spoken unwisely, and things that above measure exceeded my knowledge. Hear, and I will speak I will ask thee, and do thou tell me. With the hearing of the ear, I have heard thee, but now my eye seeth thee. Therefore I reprehend myself, and do penance in dust and ashes.

℟. Hide not thy face from me, O Lord. Withdraw not thine hand far from me, * And let not thy dread make me afraid.
℣. O Lord, correct me but in mercy not in thine anger, lest Thou bring me to nothing.
℟. And let not thy dread make me afraid.
℣. Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, * and to the Holy Ghost.
℟. And let not thy dread make me afraid.
