Thursday of the second week of September
[Tempora/092-4]

Lesson I
Lesson from the book of Job
Job 38:1-7
Then the Lord answered Job out of a whirlwind, and said: Who is this that wrappeth up sentences in unskillful words? Gird up thy loins like a man I will ask thee, and answer thou me. Where wast thou when I laid up the foundations of the earth tell me if thou hast understanding. Who hath laid the measures thereof, if thou knowest? or who hath stretched the line upon it? Upon what are its bases grounded? or who laid the corner stone thereof, When the morning stars praised me together, and all the sons of God made a joyful melody?

℟. What shall we receive good at the hand of God, and shall we not receive evil? * The Lord gave and the Lord hath taken away. As the Lord hath pleased, so hath it befallen. Blessed be the Name of the Lord.
℣. Naked came I out of my mother's womb, and naked shall I return thither.
℟. The Lord gave and the Lord hath taken away. As the Lord hath pleased, so hath it befallen. Blessed be the Name of the Lord.

Lesson II
Job 38:8-13
Who shut up the sea with doors, when it broke forth as issuing out of the womb? when I made a cloud the garment thereof, and wrapped it in a mist as in swaddling bands? I set my bounds around it, and made it bars and doors. And I said: Hitherto thou shalt come, and shalt go no further, and here thou shalt break thy swelling waves. Didst thou since thy birth command the morning, and shew the dawning of the day its place? And didst thou hold the extremities of the earth shaking them, and hast thou shaken the ungodly out of it?

℟. My sighing cometh before I eat, and my roarings are poured out like the waters, for the thing which I greatly feared is come upon me, and that which I was afraid of is come unto me. Was not I silent? Held not I my peace? Was not I at rest? * And trouble came.
℣. Behold, I cannot help myself, and they that were needful unto me have forsaken me.
℟. And trouble came.

Lesson III
Job 38:14-20
The seal shall be restored as clay, and shall stand as a garment. From the wicked their light shall be taken away, and the high arm shall be broken. Hast thou entered into the depths of the sea, and walked in the lowest parts of the deep? Have the gates of death been opened to thee, and hast thou seen the darksome doors? Hast thou considered the breadth of the earth? tell me, if thou knowest all things? Where is the way where light dwelleth, and where is the place of darkness? That thou mayst bring every thing to its own bounds, and understand the paths of the house thereof.

℟. Why do ye argue against the words of truth? Do ye imagine words to reprove me and strive to confound one that is your friend? * Nevertheless, finish that ye have in mind.
℣. Judge that which is just, and ye shall find no iniquity in my tongue.
℟. Nevertheless, finish that ye have in mind.
℣. Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, * and to the Holy Ghost.
℟. Nevertheless, finish that ye have in mind.
