Wednesday of the second week of September
[Tempora/092-3]

Lesson I
Lesson from the book of Job
Job 31:1-6
I made a covenant with my eyes, that I would not so much as think upon a virgin. For what part should God from above have in me, and what inheritance the Almighty from on high? Is not destruction to the wicked, and aversion to them that work iniquity? Doth not he consider my ways, and number all my steps? If I have walked in vanity, and my foot hath made haste to deceit: Let him weigh me in a just balance, and let God know my simplicity.

℟. O that Thou wouldest hide me in the grave; that Thou wouldest keep me secret, until thy wrath be past, even thine, O Lord, Thou That alone art God; * That Thou wouldest appoint me a set time, and remember me!
℣. Are thy days as the days of man, that Thou inquirest after mine iniquity, and there is none that can deliver out of thine hand.
℟. That Thou wouldest appoint me a set time, and remember me!

Lesson II
Job 31:7-12
If my step hath turned out of the way, and if my heart hath followed my eyes, and if a spot hath cleaved to my hands: Then let me sow and let another eat: and let my offspring be rooted out. If my heart hath been deceived upon a woman, and if I have laid wait at my friend's door: Let my wife be the harlot of another, and let other men lie with her. For this is a heinous crime, and a most grievous iniquity. It is a fire that devoureth even to destruction, and rooteth up all things that spring.

℟. O that my sins, whereby I have deserved wrath; * And the calamity whereunder I suffer, were laid in the balances together.
℣. For now it would appear heavier than the sand of the sea, therefore also my words are full of sorrow.
℟. And the calamity, whereunder I suffer, were laid in the balances together.

Lesson III
Job 31:13-18
If I have despised to abide judgment with my manservant, or my maidservant, when they had any controversy against me: For what shall I do when God shall rise to judge? and when he shall examine, what shall I answer him? Did not he that made me in the womb make him also: and did not one and the same form me in the womb? If I have denied to the poor what they desired, and have made the eyes of the widow wait: If I have eaten my morsel alone, and the fatherless hath not eaten thereof: (For from my infancy mercy grew up with me: and it came out with me from my mother's womb)

℟. Why do ye argue against the words of truth? Do ye imagine words to reprove me and strive to confound one that is your friend? * Nevertheless, finish that ye have in mind.
℣. Judge that which is just, and ye shall find no iniquity in my tongue.
℟. Nevertheless, finish that ye have in mind.
℣. Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, * and to the Holy Ghost.
℟. Nevertheless, finish that ye have in mind.
