Monday of the second week of September
[Tempora/092-1]

Lesson I
Lesson from the book of Job
Job 27:1-5
Job also added, taking up his parable, and said: As God liveth, who hath taken away my judgment, and the Almighty, who hath brought my soul to bitterness, As long as breath remaineth in me, and the spirit of God in my nostrils, My lips shall not speak iniquity, neither shall my tongue contrive lying. God forbid that I should judge you to be just: till I die I will not depart from my innocence.

℟. My harp is turned to mourning, and my organ into the voice of them that weep. * Let me alone, O Lord, for my days are vanity.
℣. My skin is black upon me, and my bones are burned with heat.
℟. Let me alone, O Lord, for my days are vanity.

Lesson II
Job 27:6-10
My justification, which I have begun to hold, I will not forsake: for my heart doth not reprehend me in all my life. Let my enemy be as the ungodly, and my adversary as the wicked one. For what is the hope of the hypocrite if through covetousness he take by violence, and God deliver not his soul? Will God hear his cry, when distress shall come upon him? Or can he delight himself in the Almighty, and call upon God at all times?

℟. O that my sins, whereby I have deserved wrath; * And the calamity whereunder I suffer, were laid in the balances together.
℣. For now it would appear heavier than the sand of the sea, therefore also my words are full of sorrow.
℟. And the calamity, whereunder I suffer, were laid in the balances together.

Lesson III
Job 27:11-15
I will teach you by the hand of God, what the Almighty hath, and I will not conceal it. Behold you all know it, and why do you speak vain things without cause? This is the portion of a wicked man with God, and the inheritance of the violent, which they shall receive of the Almighty. If his sons be multiplied, they shall be for the sword, and his grandsons shall not be filled with bread. They that shall remain of him, shall be buried in death, and his widows shall not weep.

℟. Why do ye argue against the words of truth? Do ye imagine words to reprove me and strive to confound one that is your friend? * Nevertheless, finish that ye have in mind.
℣. Judge that which is just, and ye shall find no iniquity in my tongue.
℟. Nevertheless, finish that ye have in mind.
℣. Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, * and to the Holy Ghost.
℟. Nevertheless, finish that ye have in mind.
