Monday of the third week of September
[Tempora/093-1]

Lesson I
Lesson from the book of Tobias
Tob 2:1-4
But after this, when there was a festival of the Lord, and a good dinner was prepared in Tobias's house, He said to his son: Go, and bring some of our tribe that fear God, to feast with us. And when he had gone, returning he told him, that one of the children of Israel lay slain in the street. And he forthwith leaped up from his place at the table, and left his dinner, and came fasting to the body: And taking it up carried it privately to his house, that after the sun was down, he might bury him cautiously.

℟. I entreat thee, O Lord, that thou wouldest loose me from this reproach, or that thou wouldest take me away from the earth: * Remember not mine offences nor the offences of my forefathers, neither take thou vengeance of my sins; for thou, O Lord, art a Redeemer unto all that hope in thee.
℣. For all thy judgements are just, and all thy ways are mercy and truth; and now, O Lord, remember me.
℟. Remember not mine offences nor the offences of my forefathers, neither take thou vengeance of my sins; for thou, O Lord, art a Redeemer unto all that hope in thee.

Lesson II
Tob 2:8-12
Now all his neighbours blamed him, saying: Once already commandment was given for thee to be slain because of this matter, and thou didst scarce escape the sentence of death, and dost thou again bury the dead? But Tobias fearing God more than the king, carried off the bodies of them that were slain, and hid them in his house, and at midnight buried them. Now it happened one day, that being wearied with burying, he came to his house, and cast himself down by the wall and slept, And as he was sleeping, hot dung out of a swallow's nest fell upon his eyes, and he was made blind. Now this trial the Lord therefore permitted to happen to him, that an example might be given to posterity of his patience, as also of holy Job.

℟. In all seasons bless God, and ask of Him to order thy goings; * And in all seasons let thy counsels be steadfastly in Him.
℣. Seek faithfully and with all thy strength to do such things as please Him.
℟. And in all seasons let thy counsels be steadfastly in Him.

Lesson III
Tob 2:13-18
For whereas he had always feared God from his infancy, and kept his commandments, he repined not against God because the evil of blindness had befallen him, But continued immoveable in the fear of God, giving thanks to God all the days of his life. For as the kings insulted over holy Job: so his relations and kinsmen mocked at his life, saying: Where is thy hope, for which thou gavest alms, and buriedst the dead? But Tobias rebuked them, saying: Speak not so: For we are the children of the saints, and look for that life which God will give to those that never change their faith from him.

℟. My son, remember that we have but a frail life. * If thou fear God thou shalt have great goods.
℣. Be mindful of Him, and beware lest ever thou transgress His commandments.
℟. If thou fear God thou shalt have great goods.
℣. Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, * and to the Holy Ghost.
℟. If thou fear God thou shalt have great goods.
