Tuesday of the third week of September
[Tempora/093-2]

Lesson I
Lesson from the book of Tobias
Tob 2:19-21
Now Anna his wife went daily to weaving work, and she brought home what she could get for their living by the labour of her hands. Whereby it came to pass, that she received a young kid, and brought it home: And when her husband heard it bleating, he said: Take heed, lest perhaps it be stolen: restore ye it to its owners, for it is not lawful for us either to eat or to touch any thing that cometh by theft.

℟. Our poverty was enough for us, that it might have been accounted riches. O that the money had never been, for which thou hast sent away our son, * The staff of our old age.
℣. Alas, my son, wherefore have we sent thee wandering, even thee, the light of our eyes?
℟. The staff of our old age.

Lesson II
Tob 2:22-23; 3:1-3
At these words his wife being angry answered: It is evident thy hope is come to nothing, and thy alms now appear. And with these, and other such like words she upbraided him. Then Tobias sighed, and began to pray with tears, Saying: Thou art just, O Lord, and all thy judgments are just, and all thy ways mercy, and truth, and judgment: And now, O Lord, think of me, and take not revenge of my sins, neither remember my offenses, nor those of my parents.

℟. Bless the God of heaven, and confess Him before all living: * For He hath had mercy upon you.
℣. Bless Him, and sing praises unto Him, and tell of all His marvelous works.
℟. For He hath had mercy upon you.

Lesson III
Tob 3:4-6
For we have not obeyed thy commandments, therefore are we delivered to spoil and to captivity, and death, and are made a fable, and a reproach to all nations, amongst which thou hast scattered us. And now, O Lord, great are thy judgments, because we have not done according to thy precepts, and have not walked sincerely before thee: And now, O Lord, do with me according to thy will, and command my spirit to be received in peace: for it is better for me to die, than to live.

℟. It is time for me to return unto Him That sent me; * But bless ye God, and tell of all His marvelous works.
℣. Confess Him before all living, for He hath had mercy upon you.
℟. But bless ye God, and tell of all His marvelous works.
℣. Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, * and to the Holy Ghost.
℟. But bless ye God, and tell of all His marvelous works.
