Thursday of the fourth week of September
[Tempora/094-4]

Lesson I
Lesson from the book of Judith
Jdt 12:10-13
And it came to pass on the fourth day, that Holofernes made a supper for his servants, and said to Vagao his eunuch: go, and persuade that Hebrew woman, to consent of her own accord to dwell with me. For it is looked upon as shameful among the Assyrians, if a woman mock a man, by doing so as to pass free from him. Then Vagao went in to Judith, and said: Let not my good maid be afraid to go in to my lord, that she may be honoured before his face, that she may eat with him and drink wine and be merry. And Judith answered him: Who am I, that I should gainsay my lord?

℟. O Adonai, O Lord God, Thou art great and glorious. Who hast given salvation into the hand of a woman: * Graciously hear the prayers of thy servants.
℣. Blessed art Thou, O Lord, Who failest none that put their trust in thee, and humblest such as boast themselves in their own strength.
℟. Graciously hear the prayers of thy servants.

Lesson II
Jdt 13:1-7
And when it was grown late, his servants made haste to their lodgings, and Vagao shut the chamber doors, and went his way. And they were all overcharged with wine. And Judith was alone in the chamber. But Holofernes lay on his bed, fast asleep, being exceedingly drunk. And Judith spoke to her maid to stand without before the chamber, and to watch: And Judith stood before the bed praying with tears, and the motion of her lips in silence, Saying: Strengthen me, O Lord God of Israel, and in this hour look on the works of my hands, that as thou hast promised, thou mayst raise up Jerusalem thy city: and that I may bring to pass that which I have purposed, having a belief that it might be done by thee.

℟. We have heard of the tribulation of those cities, which they have suffered, and we have fainted. Fear and confusion of mind are fallen upon us. Even the mountains will not give us a refuge. * Lord, have mercy.
℣. We have sinned like our forefathers, we have done unjustly, and wrought iniquity.
℟. Lord, have mercy.

Lesson III
Jdt 13:8-11
And when she had said this, she went to the pillar that was at his bed's head, and loosed his sword that hung tied upon it. And when she had drawn it out, she took him by the hair of his head, and said: Strengthen me, O Lord God, at this hour. And she struck twice upon his neck, and out off his head, and took off his canopy from the pillars, and rolled away his headless body. And after a while she went out, and delivered the head of Holofernes to her maid, and bade her put it into her wallet.

℟. The Lord bless thee by His power, Who hath brought our enemies to nought through thee. * And may the praise of thee never fail from the mouth of men.
℣. Blessed be the Lord, Who hath created the heaven and the earth, because that He hath so glorified thy name this day.
℟. And may the praise of thee never fail from the mouth of men.
℣. Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, * and to the Holy Ghost.
℟. And may the praise of thee never fail from the mouth of men.
