Monday of the fourth week of September
[Tempora/094-1]

Lesson I
Lesson from the book of Judith
Jdt 4:1-4
Then the children of Israel, who dwelt in the land of Juda, hearing these things, were exceedingly afraid of him. Dread and horror seized upon their minds, lest he should do the same to Jerusalem and to the temple of the Lord, that he had done to other cities and their temples. And they sent into all Samaria round about, as far as Jericho, and seized upon all the tops of the mountains: And they compassed their towns with walls, and gathered together corn for provision for war.

℟. O Adonai, O Lord God, Thou art great and glorious. Who hast given salvation into the hand of a woman: * Graciously hear the prayers of thy servants.
℣. Blessed art Thou, O Lord, Who failest none that put their trust in thee, and humblest such as boast themselves in their own strength.
℟. Graciously hear the prayers of thy servants.

Lesson II
Jdt 4:5-8
And Eliachim the priest wrote to all that were over against Esdrelon, which faceth the great plain near Dothain, and to all by whom there might be a passage of way, that they should take possession of the ascents of the mountains, by which there might be any way to Jerusalem, and should keep watch where the way was narrow between the mountains. And the children of Israel did as the priest of the Lord Eliachim had appointed them, And all the people cried to the Lord with great earnestness, and they humbled their souls in fastings, and prayers, both they and their wives. And the priests put on haircloths, and they caused the little children to lie prostrate before the temple of the Lord, and the altar of the Lord they covered with haircloth.

℟. We have heard of the tribulation of those cities, which they have suffered, and we have fainted. Fear and confusion of mind are fallen upon us. Even the mountains will not give us a refuge. * Lord, have mercy.
℣. We have sinned like our forefathers, we have done unjustly, and wrought iniquity.
℟. Lord, have mercy.

Lesson III
Jdt 4:9-12
And they cried to the Lord the God of Israel with one accord, that their children might not be made a prey, and their wives carried off, and their cities destroyed, and their holy things profaned, and that they might not be made a reproach to the Gentiles. Then Eliachim the high priest of the Lord went about all Israel and spoke to them, Saying: Know ye that the Lord will hear your prayers, if you continue with perseverance in fastings and prayers in the sight of the Lord. Remember Moses the servant of the Lord, who overcame Amalec that trusted in his own strength, and in his power, and in his army, and in his shields, and in his chariots, and in his horsemen, not by fighting with the sword, but by holy prayers:

℟. The Lord bless thee by His power, Who hath brought our enemies to nought through thee. * And may the praise of thee never fail from the mouth of men.
℣. Blessed be the Lord, Who hath created the heaven and the earth, because that He hath so glorified thy name this day.
℟. And may the praise of thee never fail from the mouth of men.
℣. Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, * and to the Holy Ghost.
℟. And may the praise of thee never fail from the mouth of men.
