Tuesday of the fourth week of September
[Tempora/094-2]

Lesson I
Lesson from the book of Judith
Jdt 8:1-4
Now it came to pass, when Judith a widow had heard these words, who was the daughter of Merari, the son of Idox, the son of Joseph, the son of Ozias, the son of Elai, the son of Jamnor, the son of Gedeon, the son of Raphaim, the son of Achitob, the son of Melehias, the son of Enan, the son of Nathanias, the son of Salathiel, the son of Simeon, the son of Ruben: And her husband was Manasses, who died in the time of the barley harvest: For he was standing over them that bound sheaves in the field and the heat came upon his head, and he died in Bethulia his own city, and was buried there with his fathers. And Judith his relict was a widow now three years and six months.

℟. We know no strange God before the Lord. In Him we trust. * He despiseth us not, neither putteth He away His salvation from our nation.
℣. His mercy let us seek with tears, and humble our souls before Him.
℟. He despiseth us not, neither putteth He away His salvation from our nation.

Lesson II
Jdt 8:5-8
And she made herself a private chamber in the upper part of her house, in which she abode shut up with her maids. And she wore haircloth upon her loins, and fasted all the days of her life, except the sabbaths, and new moons, and the feasts of the house of Israel. And she was exceedingly beautiful, and her husband left her great riches, and very many servants, and large possessions of herds of oxen, and flocks of sheep. And she was greatly renowned among all, because she feared the Lord very much, neither was there any one that spoke an ill word of her.

℟. O Lord, Ruler of the heavens and of the earth, Maker of the waters, King of every creature, * Graciously hear the prayer of thy servants.
℣. Thou, O Lord, unto Whom the supplications of the humble and meek are alway well-pleasing
℟. Graciously hear the prayer of thy servants.

Lesson III
Jdt 8:9-11
When therefore she had heard that Ozias had promised that he would deliver up the city after the fifth day, she sent to the ancients Chabri and Charmi. And they came to her, and she said to them: What is this word, by which Ozias hath consented to give up the city to the Assyrians, if within five days there come no aid to us? And who are you that tempt the Lord?

℟. O Lord God, That breakest the battles from of old, lift up thine arm against the Gentiles, that devise evil against thy servants. * And let thy right hand be glorified in us.
℣. Throw down their strength in thy power, and bring down their force in thy wrath.
℟. And let thy right hand be glorified in us.
℣. Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, * and to the Holy Ghost.
℟. And let thy right hand be glorified in us.
