Friday of the fourth week of September
[Tempora/094-5]

Lesson I
Lesson from the book of Judith
Jdt 15:1-3
And when all the army heard that Holofernes was beheaded, courage and counsel fled from them, and being seized with trembling and fear they thought only to save themselves by flight: So that no one spoke to his neighbor, but hanging down the head, leaving all things behind, they made haste to escape from the Hebrews, who, as they heard, were coming armed upon them, and fled by the ways of the fields, and the paths of the hills. So the children of Israel seeing them fleeing, followed after them. And they went down sounding with trumpets and shouting after them.

℟. We know no strange God before the Lord. In Him we trust. * He despiseth us not, neither putteth He away His salvation from our nation.
℣. His mercy let us seek with tears, and humble our souls before Him.
℟. He despiseth us not, neither putteth He away His salvation from our nation.

Lesson II
Jdt 15:5-7
And Ozias sent messengers through all the cities and countries of Israel. And every country, and every city, sent their chosen young men armed after them, and they pursued them with the edge of the sword until they came to the extremities of their confines. And the rest that were in Bethulia went into the camp of the Assyrians, and took away the spoils, which the Assyrians in their flight had left behind them, and they were laden exceedingly.

℟. O Lord, Ruler of the heavens and of the earth, Maker of the waters, King of every creature, * Graciously hear the prayer of thy servants.
℣. Thou, O Lord, unto Whom the supplications of the humble and meek are alway well-pleasing
℟. Graciously hear the prayer of thy servants.

Lesson III
Jdt 15:9-12
And Joachim the high priest came from Jerusalem to Bethulia with all his ancients to see Judith. And when she was come out to him, they all blessed her with one voice, saying: Thou art the glory of Jerusalem, thou art the joy of Israel, thou art the honour of our people: For thou hast done manfully, and thy heart has been strengthened, because thou hast loved chastity, and after thy husband hast not known any other: therefore also the hand of the Lord hath strengthened thee, and therefore thou shalt be blessed for ever. And all the people said: So be it, so be it.

℟. O Lord God, That breakest the battles from of old, lift up thine arm against the Gentiles, that devise evil against thy servants. * And let thy right hand be glorified in us.
℣. Throw down their strength in thy power, and bring down their force in thy wrath.
℟. And let thy right hand be glorified in us.
℣. Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, * and to the Holy Ghost.
℟. And let thy right hand be glorified in us.
