Monday of the fifth week of September
[Tempora/095-1]

Lesson I
Lesson from the book of Esther
Esth 2:5-7
There was a man in the city of Susan, a Jew, named Mardochai, the son of Jair, the son of Semei, the son of Cis, of the race of Jemini, Who had been carried away from Jerusalem at the time that Nabuchodonosor king of Babylon carried away Jechonias king of Juda, And he had brought up his brother's daughter Edissa, who by another name was called Esther: now she had lost both her parents: and was exceeding fair and beautiful. And her father and mother being dead, Mardochai adopted her for his daughter.

℟. O my Lord, the King Almighty All things are in thy power, and there is no man that can gainsay thy will; * Deliver us for thy Name's sake.
℣. Hear our prayer, and turn our sorrow into joy.
℟. Deliver us for thy Name's sake.

Lesson II
Esth 2:8-11
And when the king's ordinance was noised abroad, and according to his commandment many beautiful virgins were brought to Susan, and were delivered to Egeus the eunuch: Esther also among the rest of the maidens was delivered to him to be kept in the number of the women. And she pleased him, and found favour in his sight. And he commanded the eunuch to hasten the women's ornaments, and to deliver to her her part, and seven of the most beautiful maidens of the king's house, and to adorn and deck out both her and her waiting maids. And she would not tell him her people nor her country. For Mardochai had charged her to say nothing at all of that: And he walked every day before the court of the house, in which the chosen virgins werre kept, having a care for Esther's welfare, and desiring to know what would befall her.

℟. Strengthen me, O King, Who reignest over the holy ones. * Put Thou in my mouth clear and well-sounding words.
℣. O Lord, King of all forces, turn back their device upon themselves.
℟. Put Thou in my mouth clear and well-sounding words.

Lesson III
Esth 2:15-17
And as the time came orderly about, the day was at hand, when Esther, the daughter of Abihail the brother of Mardochai, whom he had adopted for his daughter, was to go in to the king. But she sought not women's ornaments, but whatsoever Egeus the eunuch the keeper of the virgins had a mind, he gave her to adorn her. For she was exceeding fair, and her incredible beauty made her appear agreeable and amiable in the eyes of all. So she was brought to the chamber of king Assuerus the tenth month, which is called Tebeth, in the seventh year of his reign. And the king loved her more than all the women, and she had favour and kindness before him above all the women, and he set the royal crown on her head, and made her queen instead of Vasthi.

℟. I have had no hope in any other but in thee, O God of Israel, Who art angry, and wilt again show mercy, * Thou that forgivest all the sins of men when they are in affliction.
℣. O Lord God, Maker of heaven and earth, look upon our low estate;
℟. Thou that forgivest all the sins of men when they are in affliction.
℣. Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, * and to the Holy Ghost.
℟. Thou that forgivest all the sins of men when they are in affliction.
