Thursday of the fifth week of September
[Tempora/095-4]

Lesson I
Lesson from the book of Esther
Esth 5:1-5
And on the third day Esther put on her royal apparel, and stood in the inner court of the king's house, over against the king's hall: now he sat upon his throne in the hall of the palace, over against the door of the house. And when he saw Esther the queen standing, she pleased his eyes, and he held out toward her the golden sceptre, which he held in his hand: and she drew near, and kissed the top of his sceptre. And the king said to her: What wilt then, queen Esther? what is thy request? if thou shouldst even ask one half of the kingdom, it shall be given to thee. But she answered: If it please the king. I beseech thee to come to me this day, and Aman with thee to the banquet which I have prepared. And the king said forthwith: Call ye Aman quickly, that he may obey Esther's will. So the king and Aman came to the banquet which the queen had prepared for them.

℟. O my Lord, the King Almighty All things are in thy power, and there is no man that can gainsay thy will; * Deliver us for thy Name's sake.
℣. Hear our prayer, and turn our sorrow into joy.
℟. Deliver us for thy Name's sake.

Lesson II
Esth 5:9-13
So Aman went out that day joyful and merry. And when he saw Mardochai sitting before the gate of the palace, and that he not only did not rise up to honour him, but did not so much as move from the place where he sat, he was exceedingly angry: But dissembling his anger, and returning into his house, he called together to him his friends, and Zares his wife: And he declared to them the greatness of his riches, and the multitude of his children, and with how great glory the king had advanced him above all his princes and servants. And after this he said: Queen Esther also hath invited no other to the banquet with the king, but me: and with her I am also to dine to morrow with the king: And whereas I have all these things, I think I have nothing, so long as I see Mardochai the Jew sitting before the king's gate.

℟. Strengthen me, O King, Who reignest over the holy ones. * Put Thou in my mouth clear and well-sounding words.
℣. O Lord, King of all forces, turn back their device upon themselves.
℟. Put Thou in my mouth clear and well-sounding words.
℣. Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, * and to the Holy Ghost.
℟. Put Thou in my mouth clear and well-sounding words.

Lesson III
Esth 5:14
Then Zares his wife, and the rest of his friends answered him: Order a great beam to be prepared, fifty cubits high, and in the morning speak to the king, that Mardochai may be hanged upon it, and so thou shalt go full of joy with the king to the banquet. The counsel pleased him, and he commanded a high gibbet to be prepared.

℟. I have had no hope in any other but in thee, O God of Israel, Who art angry, and wilt again show mercy, * Thou that forgivest all the sins of men when they are in affliction.
℣. O Lord God, Maker of heaven and earth, look upon our low estate;
℟. Thou that forgivest all the sins of men when they are in affliction.
℣. Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, * and to the Holy Ghost.
℟. Thou that forgivest all the sins of men when they are in affliction.
