Tuesday of the fifth week of September
[Tempora/095-2]

Lesson I
Lesson from the book of Esther
Esth 3:1-3
After these things, king Assuerus advanced Aman, the son of Amadathi, who was of the race of Agag: and he set his throne above all the princes that were with him. And all the king's servants, that were at the doors of the palace, bent their knees, and worshipped Aman: for so the emperor had commanded them, only Mardochai did not bend his knee, nor worship him. And the king's servants that were chief at the doors of the palace, said to him: Why dost thou alone not observe the king's commandment?

℟. Remember me for good, O Lord God, * And put not away my works of mercy, which I have wrought in the house of my God, and in the times of His solemn rites.
℣. Remember me, O Lord my God
℟. And put not away my works of mercy, which I have wrought in the house of my God, and in the times of His solemn rites.

Lesson II
Esth 3:4-6
And when they were saying this often, and he would not hearken to them; they told Aman, desirous to know whether he would continue in his resolution: for he had told them that he was a Jew. Now when Aman had heard this, and had proved by experience that Mardochai did not bend his knee to him, nor worship him, he was exceeding angry. And he counted it nothing to lay his hands upon Mardochai alone: for he had heard that he was of the nation of the Jews, and he chose rather to destroy all the nation of the Jews that were in the kingdom of Assuerus.

℟. We have heard of the tribulation of those cities, which they have suffered, and we have fainted. Fear and confusion of mind are fallen upon us. Even the mountains will not give us a refuge. * Lord, have mercy.
℣. We have sinned like our forefathers, we have done unjustly, and wrought iniquity.
℟. Lord, have mercy.

Lesson III
Esth 3:6-7
And he counted it nothing to lay his hands upon Mardochai alone: for he had heard that he was of the nation of the Jews, and he chose rather to destroy all the nation of the Jews that were in the kingdom of Assuerus. In the first month (which is called Nisan) in the twelfth year of the reign of Assuerus, the lot was cast into an urn, which in Hebrew is called Phur, before Aman, on what day and what month the nation of the Jews should be destroyed: and there came out the twelfth month, which is called Adar.

℟. The Lord bless thee by His power, Who hath brought our enemies to nought through thee. * And may the praise of thee never fail from the mouth of men.
℣. Blessed be the Lord, Who hath created the heaven and the earth, because that He hath so glorified thy name this day.
℟. And may the praise of thee never fail from the mouth of men.
℣. Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, * and to the Holy Ghost.
℟. And may the praise of thee never fail from the mouth of men.
