Fifth Sunday of September
[Tempora/095-0]

Lesson I
Lesson from the book of Esther
Esth 1:1-4
In the days of Assuerus, who reigned from India to Ethiopia over a hundred and twenty-seven provinces: When he sat on the throne of his kingdom, the city Susan was the capital of his kingdom. Now in the third year of his reign he made a great feast for all the princes, and for his servants, for the most mighty of the Persians, and the nobles of the Medes, and the governors of the provinces in his sight, That he might shew the riches of the glory of his kingdom, and the greatness, and boasting of his power, for a long time, to wit, for a hundred and fourscore days.

℟. O my Lord, the King Almighty All things are in thy power, and there is no man that can gainsay thy will; * Deliver us for thy Name's sake.
℣. Hear our prayer, and turn our sorrow into joy.
℟. Deliver us for thy Name's sake.

Lesson II
Esth 1:5-6
And when the days of the feast were expired, he invited all the people that were found in Susan, from the greatest to the least: and commanded a feast to be made seven days in the court of the garden, and of the wood, which was planted by the care and the hand of the king. And there were hung up on every side sky coloured, and green, and violet hangings, fastened with cords of silk, and of purple, which were put into rings of ivory, and were held up with marble pillars. The beds also were of gold and silver, placed in order upon a floor paved with porphyry and white marble: which was embellished with painting of wonderful variety.

℟. Strengthen me, O King, Who reignest over the holy ones. * Put Thou in my mouth clear and well-sounding words.
℣. O Lord, King of all forces, turn back their device upon themselves.
℟. Put Thou in my mouth clear and well-sounding words.

Lesson III
Esth 1:7-9
And they that were invited, drank in golden cups, and the meats were brought in diverse vessels one after another. Wine also in abundance and of the best was presented, as was worthy of a king's magnificence. Neither was there any one to compel them to drink that were not willing, but as the king had appointed, who set over every table one of his nobles, that every man might take what he would. Also Vasthi the queen made a feast for the women in the palace, where king Assuerus was used to dwell.

℟. I have had no hope in any other but in thee, O God of Israel, Who art angry, and wilt again show mercy, * Thou that forgivest all the sins of men when they are in affliction.
℣. O Lord God, Maker of heaven and earth, look upon our low estate;
℟. Thou that forgivest all the sins of men when they are in affliction.
℣. Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, * and to the Holy Ghost.
℟. Thou that forgivest all the sins of men when they are in affliction.

Lesson IV
From the Book On Duties written by St. Ambrose, Bishop (of Milan.)
Bk. iii. ch. 15
What did Queen Esther? Did she not, to save her people from danger (a beautiful and noble object) put herself in jeopardy of death, and face the anger of the cruel King The King of the Persians, cruel and violent as he was, nevertheless, thought it seemly to show grace unto him that told him of the plot that was made against him, to free the people from bondage, and to deliver them from death, but not to spare him that had persuaded such iniquity. In the end he went up to the gallows, whom he had held second only to himself, and chiefest among all his friends, because he found himself dishonoured through his false counsels.

℟. Remember me for good, O Lord God, * And put not away my works of mercy, which I have wrought in the house of my God, and in the times of His solemn rites.
℣. Remember me, O Lord my God
℟. And put not away my works of mercy, which I have wrought in the house of my God, and in the times of His solemn rites.

Lesson V
Cap. 16
That true friendship, which careth for honour, careth less for riches, or dignities, or power than for itself, but for honour before itself. Such was the friendship of Jonathan, which caused him to risk the anger of his father, and danger to himself. Such was the friendship of Achimelech, who chose to earn death for himself by giving relief to David, rather than to betray the outlaw. But before honour nothing is to be put, and friendship must not be allowed to outrun it, even as we are warned by the Scriptures.

℟. We have heard of the tribulation of those cities, which they have suffered, and we have fainted. Fear and confusion of mind are fallen upon us. Even the mountains will not give us a refuge. * Lord, have mercy.
℣. We have sinned like our forefathers, we have done unjustly, and wrought iniquity.
℟. Lord, have mercy.

Lesson VI
The Philosophers have started diverse questions whether friendship can, or cannot justify disloyalty to a man's own country whether friendship can, or cannot justify serving a friend at the cost of breach of faith. Scripture indeed saith A man that beareth false witness against his neighbour, is a maul, and a sword, and a sharp arrow. (Prov. xxv. 18.) But mark that what is here condemned is not witness by itself, but false witness. How if a man be compelled to give such witness, for the sake of God or for the sake of his country? Ought friendship to outweigh religion Is not to say this, as much as to say that a sinful weakness is to outweigh a duty?

℟. The Lord bless thee by His power, Who hath brought our enemies to nought through thee. * And may the praise of thee never fail from the mouth of men.
℣. Blessed be the Lord, Who hath created the heaven and the earth, because that He hath so glorified thy name this day.
℟. And may the praise of thee never fail from the mouth of men.
℣. Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, * and to the Holy Ghost.
℟. And may the praise of thee never fail from the mouth of men.
