Thursday of the first week of October
[Tempora/101-4]

Lesson I
Lesson from the first book of Machabees
1 Mac 2:49-54
Now the days drew near that Mathathias should die, and he said to his sons: Now hath pride and chastisement gotten strength, and the time of destruction, and the wrath of indignation: Now therefore, O my sons, be ye zealous for the law, and give your lives for the covenant of your fathers. And call to remembrance the works of the fathers, which they have done in their generations: and you shall receive great glory, and an everlasting name. Was not Abraham found faithful in temptation, and it was reputed to him unto justice? Joseph in the time of his distress kept the commandment, and he was made lord of Egypt. Phinees our father, by being fervent in the zeal of God, received the covenant of an everlasting priesthood.

℟. The Lord open your hearts in His law and commandments, and send peace in your days. * May He grant you salvation and redeem you out of all evil.
℣. The Lord hear your prayers, and be at one with you, and never forsake you in the time of trouble.
℟. May He grant you salvation and redeem you out of all evil.

Lesson II
1 Mac 2:55-63
Jesus, whilst he fulfilled the word, was made ruler in Israel. Caleb, for bearing witness before the congregation, received an inheritance. David by his mercy obtained the throne of an everlasting kingdom. Elias, while he was full of zeal for the law, was taken up into heaven. Ananias and Azarias and Misael by believing, were delivered out of the flame. Daniel in his innocency was delivered out of the mouth of the lions. And thus consider through all generations: that none that trust in him fail in strength. And fear not the words of a sinful man, for his glory is dung, and worms: To day he is lifted up, and to morrow he shall not be found, because he is returned into his earth; and his thought is come to nothing.

℟. The Lord hear your prayers, and be at one with you, and never forsake you in the time of trouble * Even He, the Lord our God.
℣. Give you all an heart to serve Him, and to do His will.
℟. Even He, the Lord our God.

Lesson III
1 Mac 2:64-69
You therefore, my sons, take courage, and behave manfully in the law: for by it you shall be glorious. And behold, I know that your brother Simon is a man of counsel: give ear to him always, and he shall be a father to you. And Judas Machabeus who is valiant and strong from his youth up, let him be the leader of your army, and he shall manage the war of the people. And you shall take to you all that observe the law: and revenge ye the wrong of your people. Render to the Gentiles their reward, and take heed to the precepts of the law. And he blessed them, and was joined to his fathers.

℟. Our enemies are gathered together, and make their boast of their own strength. O Lord, break their power, and scatter them * That they may know that there is none other that fighteth for us, but only Thou, O our God!
℣. Scatter them in thy strength, and destroy them, O Lord our Shield.
℟. That they may know that there is none other that fighteth for us, but only Thou, O our God!
℣. Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, * and to the Holy Ghost.
℟. That they may know that there is none other that fighteth for us, but only Thou, O our God!
