Tuesday of the first week of October
[Tempora/101-2]

Lesson I
Lesson from the first book of Machabees
1 Mac 2:1-6
In those days arose Mathathias the son of John, the son of Simeon, a priest of the sons of Joarib, from Jerusalem, and he abode in the mountain of Modin. And he had five sons: John who was surnamed Gaddis: And Simon, who was surnamed Thasi: And Judas, who was called Machabeus: And Eleazar, who was surnamed Abaron: and Jonathan, who was surnamed Apphus. These saw the evils that were done in the people of Juda, and in Jerusalem.

℟. This is a lover of the brethren, and of the people of Israel * This is one who prayeth much for the people, and for all the Holy City, Jerusalem.
℣. There appeared a man most gentle toward all his people.
℟. This is one who prayeth much for the people, and for all the Holy City, Jerusalem.

Lesson II
1 Mac 2:7-10
And Mathathias said: Woe is me, wherefore was I born to see the ruin of my people, and the ruin of the holy city, and to dwell there, when it is given into the hands of the enemies? The holy places are come into the hands of strangers: her temple is become as a man without honour. The vessels of her glory are carried away captive: her old men are murdered in the streets, and her young men are fallen by the sword of the enemies. What nation hath not inherited her kingdom, and gotten of her spoils?

℟. Thou, O Lord of all things, Who hast need of nothing, wast pleased that the Temple of thine habitation should be among us. * Therefore now, O Lord, keep this house ever undefiled
℣. Thou, O Lord, didst choose this house, that thy Name should be called on therein, and to be an house of prayer and petition for thy people.
℟. Therefore now, O Lord, keep this house ever undefiled.

Lesson III
1 Mac 2:14-16
And Mathathias and his sons rent their garments, and they covered themselves with haircloth, and made great lamentation. And they that were sent from king Antiochus came thither, to compel them that were fled into the city of Modin, to sacrifice, and to burn incense, and to depart from the law of God. And many of the people of Israel consented, and came to them: but Mathathias and his sons stood firm.

℟. Open thine eyes, O Lord, and behold our affliction for the heathen are come round about us to punish us. * But Thou, O Lord, stretch forth thine arm, and deliver our souls.
℣. Punish them that oppress us and with pride do us wrong, and keep thine own portion.
℟. But Thou, O Lord, stretch forth thine arm, and deliver our souls.
℣. Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, * and to the Holy Ghost.
℟. But Thou, O Lord, stretch forth thine arm, and deliver our souls.
