Wednesday of the first week of October
[Tempora/101-3]

Lesson I
Lesson from the first book of Machabees
1 Mac 2:19-22
Then Mathathias answered, and said with a loud voice: Although all nations obey king Antiochus, so as to depart every man from the service of the law of his fathers, and consent to his commandments: I and my sons, and my brethren will obey the law of our fathers. God be merciful unto us: it is not profitable for us to forsake the law, and the justices of God: We will not hearken to the words of king Antiochus, neither will we sacrifice, and transgress the commandments of our law, to go another way.

℟. The sun shone upon the shields of gold, and the mountains glistered therewith; * And the army of the heathens was spread abroad.
℣. For the army was very great and mighty then Judas and his host drew near and entered into battle.
℟. And the army of the heathens was spread abroad.

Lesson II
1 Mac 2:23-26
Now as he left off speaking these words, there came a certain Jew in the sight of all to sacrifice to the idols upon the altar in the city of Modin, according to the king's commandment. And Mathathias saw and was grieved, and his reins trembled, and his wrath was kindled according to the judgment of the law, and running upon him he slew him upon the altar: Moreover the man whom king Antiochus had sent, who compelled them to sacrifice, he slew at the same time, and pulled down the altar. And shewed zeal for the law, as Phinees did by Zamri the son of Salomi.

℟. They decked the fore-front of the Temple with crowns of gold, and dedicated the Altar unto the Lord. * And there was very great gladness among the people.
℣. They praised the Lord with Psalms and thanksgiving.
℟. And there was very great gladness among the people.

Lesson III
1 Mac 2:27-30
And Mathathias cried out in the city with a loud voice, saying: Every one that hath zeal for the law, and maintaineth the testament, let him follow me. So he, and his sons fled into the mountains, and left all that they had in the city. Then many that sought after judgment, and justice, went down into the desert: And they abode there, they and their children, and their wives, and their cattle: because afflictions increased upon them.

℟. They praised the Lord with psalms and thanksgiving * Who had done so great things in Israel, and given them the victory the Lord Almighty.
℣. They decked the fore-front of the Temple with crowns of gold, and dedicated the Altar unto the Lord.
℟. Who had done so great things for Israel, and given them the victory the Lord Almighty.
℣. Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, * and to the Holy Ghost.
℟. Who had done so great things for Israel, and given them the victory the Lord Almighty.
