Tuesday of the second week of October
[Tempora/102-2]

Lesson I
Lesson from the first book of Machabees
1 Mac 5:1-5
Now it came to pass, when the nations round about heard that the altar and the sanctuary were built up as before, that they were exceeding angry. And they thought to destroy the generation of Jacob that were among them, and they began to kill some of the people, and to persecute them. Then Judas fought against the children of Esau in Idumea, and them that were in Acrabathane: because they beset the Israelites around about, and he made a great slaughter of them. And he remembered the malice of the children of Bean: who were a snare and a stumblingblock to the people, by lying in wait for them in the way. And they were shut up by him in towers, and he set upon them, and devoted them to utter destruction, and burnt their towers with fire, and all that were in them.

℟. This is a lover of the brethren, and of the people of Israel * This is one who prayeth much for the people, and for all the Holy City, Jerusalem.
℣. There appeared a man most gentle toward all his people.
℟. This is one who prayeth much for the people, and for all the Holy City, Jerusalem.

Lesson II
1 Mac 5:6-9
Then he passed over to the children of Ammon, where he found a mighty power, and much people, and Timotheus was their captain: And he fought many battles with them, and they were discomfited in their sight, and he smote them: And he took the city of Gazer and her towns, and returned into Judea. And the Gentiles that were in Galaad, assembled themselves together against the Israelites that were in their quarters to destroy them: and they fled into the fortress of Datheman.

℟. Thou, O Lord of all things, Who hast need of nothing, wast pleased that the Temple of thine habitation should be among us. * Therefore now, O Lord, keep this house ever undefiled
℣. Thou, O Lord, didst choose this house, that thy Name should be called on therein, and to be an house of prayer and petition for thy people.
℟. Therefore now, O Lord, keep this house ever undefiled.

Lesson III
1 Mac 5:10-13
And they sent letters to Judas and his brethren, saying, The heathens that are round about are gathered together against us, to destroy us: And they are preparing to come, and to take the fortress into which we are fled: and Timotheus is the captain of their host. Now therefore come, and deliver us out of their hands, for many of us are slain. And all our brethren that were in the places of Tubin, are killed: and they have carried away their wives, and their children, captives, and taken their spoils, and they have slain there almost a thousand men.

℟. Open thine eyes, O Lord, and behold our affliction for the heathen are come round about us to punish us. * But Thou, O Lord, stretch forth thine arm, and deliver our souls.
℣. Punish them that oppress us and with pride do us wrong, and keep thine own portion.
℟. But Thou, O Lord, stretch forth thine arm, and deliver our souls.
℣. Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, * and to the Holy Ghost.
℟. But Thou, O Lord, stretch forth thine arm, and deliver our souls.
