Wednesday of the second week of October
[Tempora/102-3]

Lesson I
Lesson from the first book of Machabees
1 Mac 5:55-58
Now in the days that Judas and Jonathan were in the land of Galaad, and Simon his brother in Galilee before Ptolemais, Joseph the son of Zacharias, and Azarias captain of the soldiers, heard of the good success, and the battles that were fought. And he said: Let us also get us a name, and let us go fight against the Gentiles that are round about us. And he gave charge to them that were in his army, and they went towards Jamnia.

℟. The sun shone upon the shields of gold, and the mountains glistered therewith; * And the army of the heathens was spread abroad.
℣. For the army was very great and mighty then Judas and his host drew near and entered into battle.
℟. And the army of the heathens was spread abroad.

Lesson II
1 Mac 5:59-62
And Gorgias and his men went out of the city, to give them battle. And Joseph and Azarias were put to flight, and were pursued unto the borders of Judea: and there fell, on that day, of the people of Israel about two thousand men, and there was a great overthrow of the people: Because they did not hearken to Judas, and his brethren, thinking that they should do manfully. But they were not of the seed of those men by whom salvation was brought to Israel.

℟. They decked the fore-front of the Temple with crowns of gold, and dedicated the Altar unto the Lord. * And there was very great gladness among the people.
℣. They praised the Lord with Psalms and thanksgiving.
℟. And there was very great gladness among the people.

Lesson III
1 Mac 5:63-67
And the men of Juda were magnified exceedingly in the sight of all Israel, and of all the nations where their name was heard. And people assembled to them with joyful acclamations. Then Judas and his brethren went forth and attacked the children of Esau, in the land toward the south, and he took Chebron, and her towns: and he burnt the walls thereof and the towers all round it. And he removed his camp to go into the land of the aliens, and he went through Samaria. In that day some priests fell in battle, while desiring to do manfully they went out unadvisedly to fight.

℟. They praised the Lord with psalms and thanksgiving * Who had done so great things in Israel, and given them the victory the Lord Almighty.
℣. They decked the fore-front of the Temple with crowns of gold, and dedicated the Altar unto the Lord.
℟. Who had done so great things for Israel, and given them the victory the Lord Almighty.
℣. Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, * and to the Holy Ghost.
℟. Who had done so great things for Israel, and given them the victory the Lord Almighty.
