Monday of the second week of October
[Tempora/102-1]

Lesson I
Lesson from the first book of Machabees
1 Mac 4:52-55
And they arose before the morning on the five and twentieth day of the ninth month (which is the month of Casleu) in the hundred and forty-eighth year. And they offered sacrifice according to the law upon the new altar of holocausts which they had made. According to the time, and according to the day wherein the heathens had defiled it, in the same was it dedicated anew with canticles, and harps, and lutes, and cymbals. And all the people fell upon their faces, and adored, and blessed up to heaven, him that had prospered them.

℟. Judas said unto Simon his brother: Choose thee out men, and go, and deliver thy brethren that are in Galilee and I, and Jonathan thy brother, will go into the country of Galaad. * As the Will is in heaven, so let it be.
℣. Arm yourselves, ye valiant men, and be in readiness for it is better for us to die in battle, than to behold the calamities of our people, and our sanctuary.
℟. As the Will is in heaven, so let it be.

Lesson II
1 Mac 4:56-59
And they kept the dedication of the altar eight days, and they offered holocausts with joy, and sacrifices of salvation, and of praise. And they adorned the front of the temple with crowns of gold, and escutcheons, and they renewed the gates, and the chambers, and hanged doors upon them. And there was exceeding great joy among the people, and the reproach of the Gentiles was turned away. And Judas, and his brethren, and all the church of Israel decreed, that the day of the dedication of the altar should be kept in its season from year to year for eight days, from the five and twentieth day of the month of Casleu, with joy and gladness.

℟. They decked the fore-front of the Temple with crowns of gold, and dedicated the Altar unto the Lord. * And there was very great gladness among the people.
℣. They praised the Lord with Psalms and thanksgiving.
℟. And there was very great gladness among the people.

Lesson III
1 Mac 4:60-61
They built up also at that time mount Sion, with high walls, and strong towers round about, lest the Gentiles should at any time come, and tread it down as they did before. And he placed a garrison there to keep it, and he fortified it to secure Bethsura, that the people might have a defence against Idumea.

℟. They praised the Lord with psalms and thanksgiving * Who had done so great things in Israel, and given them the victory the Lord Almighty.
℣. They decked the fore-front of the Temple with crowns of gold, and dedicated the Altar unto the Lord.
℟. Who had done so great things for Israel, and given them the victory the Lord Almighty.
℣. Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, * and to the Holy Ghost.
℟. Who had done so great things for Israel, and given them the victory the Lord Almighty.
