Friday of the third week of October
[Tempora/103-5]

Lesson I
Lesson from the first book of Machabees
1 Mac 14:16-19
And it was heard at Rome, and as far as Sparta, that Jonathan was dead: and they were very sorry. But when they heard that Simon his brother was made high priest in his place, and was possessed of all the country, and the cities therein: They wrote to him in tables of brass, to renew the friendship and alliance which they had made with Judas, and with Jonathan his brethren. And they were read before the assembly in Jerusalem. And this is the copy of the letters that the Spartans sent.

℟. Be ye not afraid of the assault of the enemy; remember how our fathers were delivered. * Now, therefore, let us cry unto heaven, and our God will have mercy upon us.
℣. Remember His marvellous works that He hath done unto Pharaoh and his host in the Red Sea.
℟. Now, therefore, let us cry unto heaven, and our God will have mercy upon us.

Lesson II
1 Mac 14:20-23
The princes and the cities of the Spartans to Simon the high priest, and to the ancients, and the priests, and the rest of the people of the Jews their brethren, greeting. The ambassadors that were sent to our people, have told us of your glory, and honour, and joy: and we rejoice at their coming. And we registered what was said by them in the councils of the people in this manner: Numenius the son of Antiochus, and Antipater the son of Jason, ambassadors of the Jews, came to us to renew the former friendship with us. And it pleased the people to receive the men honourably, and to put a copy of their words in the public records, to be a memorial to the people of the Spartans. And we have written a copy of them to Simon the high priest.

℟. The heathen are assembled together to fight against us, and we know not what we should do. * Our eyes look unto thee, O Lord our God, that we should not perish.
℣. What things they imagine against us, Thou knowest. How shall we be able to stand against them, except Thou be our help.
℟. Our eyes look unto thee, O Lord our God, that we should not perish.

Lesson III
1 Mac 14:24-26
And after this Simon sent Numenius to Rome, with a great shield of gold the weight of a thousand pounds, to confirm the league with them. And when the people of Rome had heard These words, they said: What thanks shall we give to Simon, and his sons? For he hath restored his brethren, and hath driven away in fight the enemies of Israel from them: and they decreed him liberty, and registered it in tables of brass, and set it upon pillars in mount Sion.

℟. Thine, O Lord, is the power, thine is the kingdom, O Lord, and Thou art exalted above all the heathen. * Give peace in our time, O Lord.
℣. O Lord God, Creator of all things, Who art fearful and strong, righteous and merciful.
℟. Give peace in our time, O Lord.
℣. Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, * and to the Holy Ghost.
℟. Give peace in our time, O Lord.
