Tuesday of the third week of October
[Tempora/103-2]

Lesson I
Lesson from the first book of Machabees
1 Mac 12:1-4
And Jonathan saw that the time served him, and he chose certain men and sent them to Rome, to confirm and to renew the amity with them: And he sent letters to the Spartans, and to other places according to the same form. And they went to Rome, and entered into the senate house, and said: Jonathan the high priest, and the nation of the Jews have sent us to renew the amity, and alliance as it was before. And they gave them letters to their governors in every place, to conduct them into the land of Juda with peace.

℟. This is a lover of the brethren, and of the people of Israel * This is one who prayeth much for the people, and for all the Holy City, Jerusalem.
℣. There appeared a man most gentle toward all his people.
℟. This is one who prayeth much for the people, and for all the Holy City, Jerusalem.

Lesson II
1 Mac 12:5-8
And this is a copy of the letters which Jonathan wrote to the Spartans: Jonathan the high priest, and the ancients of the nation, and the priests, and the rest of the people of the Jews, to the Spartans, their brethren, greeting. There were letters sent long ago to Onias the high priest from Arius who reigned then among you, to signify that you are our brethren, as the copy here underwritten doth specify. And Onias received the ambassador with honour: and received the letters wherein there was mention made of the alliance, and amity.

℟. Thou, O Lord of all things, Who hast need of nothing, wast pleased that the Temple of thine habitation should be among us. * Therefore now, O Lord, keep this house ever undefiled
℣. Thou, O Lord, didst choose this house, that thy Name should be called on therein, and to be an house of prayer and petition for thy people.
℟. Therefore now, O Lord, keep this house ever undefiled.

Lesson III
1 Mac 12:9-11
We, though we needed none of these things, having for our comfort the holy books that are in our hands, Chose rather to send to you to renew the brotherhood and friendship, lest we should become strangers to you altogether: for there is a long time passed since you sent to us. We therefore at all times without ceasing, both in our festivals, and other days, wherein it is convenient, remember you in the sacrifices that we offer, and in our observances, as it is meet, and becoming to remember brethren.

℟. Open thine eyes, O Lord, and behold our affliction for the heathen are come round about us to punish us. * But Thou, O Lord, stretch forth thine arm, and deliver our souls.
℣. Punish them that oppress us and with pride do us wrong, and keep thine own portion.
℟. But Thou, O Lord, stretch forth thine arm, and deliver our souls.
℣. Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, * and to the Holy Ghost.
℟. But Thou, O Lord, stretch forth thine arm, and deliver our souls.
