Monday of the fourth week of October
[Tempora/104-1]

Lesson I
Lesson from the second book of Machabees
2 Mac 2:1-3
Now it is found in the descriptions of Jeremias the prophet, that he commanded them that went into captivity, to take the fire, as it hath been signified, and how he gave charge to them that were carried away into captivity. And how he gave them the law that they should not forget the commandments of the Lord, and that they should not err in their minds, seeing the idols of gold, and silver, and the ornaments of them. And with other such like speeches, he exhorted them that they would not remove the law from their heart.

℟. Judas said unto Simon his brother: Choose thee out men, and go, and deliver thy brethren that are in Galilee and I, and Jonathan thy brother, will go into the country of Galaad. * As the Will is in heaven, so let it be.
℣. Arm yourselves, ye valiant men, and be in readiness for it is better for us to die in battle, than to behold the calamities of our people, and our sanctuary.
℟. As the Will is in heaven, so let it be.

Lesson II
2 Mac 2:4-6
It was also contained in the same writing, how the prophet, being warned by God, commanded that the tabernacle and the ark should accompany him, till he came forth to the mountain where Moses went up, and saw the inheritance of God. And when Jeremias came thither he found a hollow cave: and he carried in thither the tabernacle, and the ark, and the altar of incense, and so stopped the door. Then some of them that followed him, came up to mark the place: but they could not find it.

℟. They decked the fore-front of the Temple with crowns of gold, and dedicated the Altar unto the Lord. * And there was very great gladness among the people.
℣. They praised the Lord with Psalms and thanksgiving.
℟. And there was very great gladness among the people.

Lesson III
2 Mac 2:7-9
And when Jeremias perceived it, he blamed them, saying: The place shall be unknown, till God gather together the congregation of the people, and receive them to mercy. And then the Lord will shew these things, and the majesty of the Lord shall appear, and there shall be a cloud as it was also shewed to Moses, and he shewed it when Solomon prayed that the place might be sanctified to the great God. For he treated wisdom in a magnificent manner: and like a wise man, he offered the sacrifice of the dedication, and of the finishing of the temple.

℟. They praised the Lord with psalms and thanksgiving * Who had done so great things in Israel, and given them the victory the Lord Almighty.
℣. They decked the fore-front of the Temple with crowns of gold, and dedicated the Altar unto the Lord.
℟. Who had done so great things for Israel, and given them the victory the Lord Almighty.
℣. Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, * and to the Holy Ghost.
℟. Who had done so great things for Israel, and given them the victory the Lord Almighty.
