Thursday of the fourth week of October
[Tempora/104-4]

Lesson I
Lesson from the second book of Machabees
2 Mac 4:1-5
But Simon, of whom we spoke before, and of his country, spoke ill of Onias, as though he had incited Heliodorus to do these things, and had been the promoter of evils: And he presumed to call him a traitor to the kingdom, who provided for the city, and defended his nation, and was zealous for the law of God. But when the enmities proceeded so far, that murders also were committed by some of Simon's friends: Onias considering the danger of this contention, and that Apollonius, who was the governor of Celesyria and Phenicia, was outrageous, which increased the malice of Simon, went to the king, not to be an accuser of his countrymen, but with a view to the common good of all the people.

℟. The Lord open your hearts in His law and commandments, and send peace in your days. * May He grant you salvation and redeem you out of all evil.
℣. The Lord hear your prayers, and be at one with you, and never forsake you in the time of trouble.
℟. May He grant you salvation and redeem you out of all evil.

Lesson II
2 Mac 4:6-9
For he saw that, except the king took care, it was impossible that matters should be settled in peace, or that Simon would cease from his folly. But after the death of Seleucus, when Antiochus, who was called the Illustrious, had taken possession of the kingdom, Jason the brother of Onias ambitiously sought the high priesthood: And went to the king, promising him three hundred and sixty talents of silver, and out of other revenues four- score talents. Besides this he promised also a hundred and fifty more, if he might have license to set him up a place for exercise, and a place for youth, and to entitle them, that were at Jerusalem, Antiochians.

℟. The Lord hear your prayers, and be at one with you, and never forsake you in the time of trouble * Even He, the Lord our God.
℣. Give you all an heart to serve Him, and to do His will.
℟. Even He, the Lord our God.
℣. Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, * and to the Holy Ghost.
℟. Even He, the Lord our God.

Lesson III
2 Mac 4:10-11
Which when the king had granted, and he had gotten the rule into his hands, forthwith he began to bring over his countrymen to the fashion of the heathens. And abolishing those things, which had been decreed of special favour by the kings in behalf of the Jews, by the means of John the father of that Eupolemus, who went ambassador to Rome to make amity and alliance, he disannulled the lawful ordinances of the citizens, and brought in fashions that were perverse.

℟. Our enemies are gathered together, and make their boast of their own strength. O Lord, break their power, and scatter them * That they may know that there is none other that fighteth for us, but only Thou, O our God!
℣. Scatter them in thy strength, and destroy them, O Lord our Shield.
℟. That they may know that there is none other that fighteth for us, but only Thou, O our God!
℣. Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, * and to the Holy Ghost.
℟. That they may know that there is none other that fighteth for us, but only Thou, O our God!
