Tuesday of the fourth week of October
[Tempora/104-2]

Lesson I
Lesson from the second book of Machabees
2 Mac 3:1-4
Therefore when the holy city was inhabited with all peace, and the laws as yet were very well kept, because of the godliness of Onias the high priest, and the hatred his soul had of evil, It came to pass that even the kings themselves, and the princes esteemed the place worthy of the highest honour, and glorified the temple with very great gifts: So that Seleucus king of Asia allowed out of his revenues all the charges belonging to the ministry of the sacrifices. But one Simon of the tribe of Benjamin, who was appointed overseer of the temple, strove in opposition to the high priest, to bring about some unjust thing in the city.

℟. This is a lover of the brethren, and of the people of Israel * This is one who prayeth much for the people, and for all the Holy City, Jerusalem.
℣. There appeared a man most gentle toward all his people.
℟. This is one who prayeth much for the people, and for all the Holy City, Jerusalem.

Lesson II
2 Mac 3:5-8
And when he could not overcome Onias he went to Apollonius the son of Tharseas, who at that time was governor of Celesyria and Phenicia: And told him, that the treasury in Jerusalem was full of immense sums of money, and the common store was infinite, which did not belong to the account of the sacrifices: and that it was possible to bring all into the king's hands. Now when Apollonius had given the king notice concerning the money that he was told of, he called for Heliodorus, who had the charge over his affairs, and sent him with commission to bring him the foresaid money. So Heliodorus forthwith began his journey, under a colour of visiting the cities of Celesyria and Phenicia, but indeed to fulfil the king's purpose.

℟. Thou, O Lord of all things, Who hast need of nothing, wast pleased that the Temple of thine habitation should be among us. * Therefore now, O Lord, keep this house ever undefiled
℣. Thou, O Lord, didst choose this house, that thy Name should be called on therein, and to be an house of prayer and petition for thy people.
℟. Therefore now, O Lord, keep this house ever undefiled.
℣. Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, * and to the Holy Ghost.
℟. Therefore now, O Lord, keep this house ever undefiled.

Lesson III
2 Mac 3:9-12
And when he was come to Jerusalem, and had been courteously received in the city by the high priest, he told him what information had been given concerning the money: and declared the cause for which he was come: and asked if these things were so indeed. Then the high priest told him that these were sums deposited, and provisions for the subsistence of the widows and the fatherless. And that some part of that which wicked Simon had given intelligence of, belonged to Hircanus son of Tobias, a man of great dignity: and that the whole was four hundred talents of silver, and two hundred of gold: But that to deceive them who had trusted to the place and temple which is honoured throughout the whole world, for the reverence and holiness of it, was a thing which could not by any means be done.

℟. Open thine eyes, O Lord, and behold our affliction for the heathen are come round about us to punish us. * But Thou, O Lord, stretch forth thine arm, and deliver our souls.
℣. Punish them that oppress us and with pride do us wrong, and keep thine own portion.
℟. But Thou, O Lord, stretch forth thine arm, and deliver our souls.
℣. Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, * and to the Holy Ghost.
℟. But Thou, O Lord, stretch forth thine arm, and deliver our souls.
