Friday of the fourth week of October
[Tempora/104-5]

Lesson I
Lesson from the second book of Machabees
2 Mac 5:1-4
At the same time Antiochus prepared for a second journey into Egypt. And it came to pass that through the whole city of Jerusalem for the space of forty days there were seen horsemen running in the air, in gilded raiment, and armed with spears, like bands of soldiers. And horses set in order by ranks, running one against another, with the shakings of shields, and a multitude of men in helmets, with drawn swords, and casting of darts, and glittering of golden armour, and of harnesses of all sorts. Wherefore all men prayed that these prodigies might turn to good.

℟. Be ye not afraid of the assault of the enemy; remember how our fathers were delivered. * Now, therefore, let us cry unto heaven, and our God will have mercy upon us.
℣. Remember His marvellous works that He hath done unto Pharaoh and his host in the Red Sea.
℟. Now, therefore, let us cry unto heaven, and our God will have mercy upon us.

Lesson II
2 Mac 5:5-7
Now when there was gone forth a false rumour, as though Antiochus had been dead, Jason taking with him no fewer than a thousand men, suddenly assaulted the city: and though the citizens ran together to the wall, the city at length was taken, and Menelaus fled into the castle. But Jason slew his countrymen without mercy, not considering that prosperity against one's own kindred is a very great evil, thinking they had been enemies, and not citizens, whom he conquered. Yet he did not get the principality, but received confusion at the end, for the reward of his treachery, and fled again into the country of the Ammonites.

℟. The heathen are assembled together to fight against us, and we know not what we should do. * Our eyes look unto thee, O Lord our God, that we should not perish.
℣. What things they imagine against us, Thou knowest. How shall we be able to stand against them, except Thou be our help.
℟. Our eyes look unto thee, O Lord our God, that we should not perish.
℣. Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, * and to the Holy Ghost.
℟. Our eyes look unto thee, O Lord our God, that we should not perish.
