Fifth Sunday of October
[Tempora/105-0]

Lesson I
Lesson from the second book of Machabees
2 Mac 6:18-22
Eleazar one of the chief of the scribes, a man advanced in years, and of a comely countenance, was pressed to open his mouth to eat swine's flesh. But he, choosing rather a most glorious death than a hateful life, went forward voluntarily to the torment. And considering in what manner he was come to it, patiently bearing, he determined not to do any unlawful things for the love of life. But they that stood by, being moved with wicked pity, for the old friendship they had with the man, taking him aside, desired that flesh might be brought, which it was lawful for him to eat, that he might make as if he had eaten, as the king had commanded of the flesh of the sacrifice: That by so doing he might be delivered from death: and for the sake of their old friendship with the man they did him this courtesy.

℟. The Lord open your hearts in His law and commandments, and send peace in your days. * May He grant you salvation and redeem you out of all evil.
℣. The Lord hear your prayers, and be at one with you, and never forsake you in the time of trouble.
℟. May He grant you salvation and redeem you out of all evil.

Lesson II
2 Mac 6:23-28
But he began to consider the dignity of his age, and his ancient years, and the inbred honour of his grey head, and his good life and conversation from a child: and he answered without delay, according to the ordinances of the holy law made by God, saying, that he would rather be sent into the other world. For it doth not become our age, said he, to dissemble: whereby many young persons might think that Eleazar, at the age of fourscore and ten years, was gone over to the life of the heathens: And so they, through my dissimulation, and for a little time of a corruptible life, should be deceived, end hereby I should bring a stain and a curse upon my old age. For though, for the present time, I should be delivered from the punishments of men, yet should I not escape the hand of the Almighty neither alive nor dead. Wherefore by departing manfully out of this life, I shall shew myself worthy of my old age: And I shall leave an example of fortitude to young men, if with a ready mind and constancy I suffer an honourable death, for the most venerable and most holy laws. And having spoken thus, he was forthwith carried to execution.

℟. Thou, O Lord of all things, Who hast need of nothing, wast pleased that the Temple of thine habitation should be among us. * Therefore now, O Lord, keep this house ever undefiled
℣. Thou, O Lord, didst choose this house, that thy Name should be called on therein, and to be an house of prayer and petition for thy people.
℟. Therefore now, O Lord, keep this house ever undefiled.

Lesson III
2 Mac 7:1-5
It came to pass also, that seven brethren, together with their mother, were apprehended, and compelled by the king to eat swine's flesh against the law, for which end they were tormented with whips and scourges. But one of them, who was the eldest, said thus: What wouldst thou ask, or learn of us? we are ready to die rather than to transgress the laws of God, received from our fathers. Then the king being angry commanded fryingpans, and brazen caldrons to be made hot: which forthwith being heated, He commanded to cut out the tongue of him that had spoken first: and the skin of his head being drawn off, to chop off also the extremities of his hands and feet, the rest of his brethren, and his mother, looking on. And when he was now maimed in all parts, he commanded him, being yet alive, to be brought to the fire, and to be fried in the fryingpan: and while he was suffering therein long torments, the rest, together with the mother, exhorted one another to die manfully.

℟. Open thine eyes, O Lord, and behold our affliction for the heathen are come round about us to punish us. * But Thou, O Lord, stretch forth thine arm, and deliver our souls.
℣. Punish them that oppress us and with pride do us wrong, and keep thine own portion.
℟. But Thou, O Lord, stretch forth thine arm, and deliver our souls.
℣. Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, * and to the Holy Ghost.
℟. But Thou, O Lord, stretch forth thine arm, and deliver our souls.
