Thursday of the first week of November
[Tempora/111-4]

Lesson I
Lesson from the book of Ezekiel
Ezek 13:1-6
And the word of the Lord came to me, saying: Son of man, prophesy thou against the prophets of Israel that prophesy: and thou shalt say to them that prophesy out of their own heart: Hear ye the word of the Lord: Thus saith the Lord God: Woe to the foolish prophets that follow their own spirit, and see nothing. Thy prophets, O Israel, were like foxes in the deserts. You have not gone up to face the enemy, nor have you set up a wall for the house of Israel, to stand in battle in the day of the Lord. They see vain things, and they foretell lies, saying: The Lord saith: whereas the Lord hath not sent them: and they have persisted to confirm what they have said.

℟. I saw the Lord sitting upon a throne, high and lifted up, and the whole earth was full of His glory; * And His train filled the temple.
℣. Above it stood the Seraphim each one had six wings.
℟. And His train filled the temple.

Lesson II
Ezek 13:7-10
Have you not seen a vain vision and spoken a lying divination: and you say: The Lord saith: whereas I have not spoken. Therefore thus saith the Lord God: Because you have spoken vain things, and have seen lies: therefore behold I come against you, saith the Lord God. And my hand shall be upon the prophets that see vain things, and that divine lies: they shall not be in the council of my people, nor shall they be written in the writing of the house of Israel, neither shall they enter into the land of Israel, and you shall know that I am the Lord God. Because they have deceived my people, saying: Peace, and there is no peace: and the people built up a wall, and they daubed it with dirt without straw.

℟. Look down, O Lord, from the dwelling-place of thine holiness, and take thought for us. O my God, incline thine ear, and hear. * Open thine eyes, and behold our desolation.
℣. Give ear, O Shepherd of Israel, Thou That leadest Joseph like a flock.
℟. Open thine eyes, and behold our desolation.

Lesson III
Ezek 13:11-14
Say to them that daub without tempering, that it shall fall: for there shall be an overflowing shower, and I will cause great hailstones to fall violently from above, and a stormy wind to throw it down. Behold, when the wall is fallen: shall it not be said to you: Where is the daubing wherewith you have daubed it? Therefore thus saith the Lord God: Lo, I will cause a stormy wind to break forth in my indignation, and there shall be an overflowing shower in my anger: and great hailstones in my wrath to consume. And I will break down the wall that you have daubed with untempered mortar.

℟. Consider, O Lord, how that the city sitteth solitary that was full of riches; how is she become as a widow, she that was great among the nations; * She hath none to comfort her, save thee, O our God.
℣. She weepeth sore in the night, and her tears are on her cheeks.
℟. She hath none to comfort her, save thee, O our God.
℣. Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, * and to the Holy Ghost.
℟. She hath none to comfort her, save thee, O our God.
