Saturday of the first week of November
[Tempora/111-6]

Lesson I
Lesson from the book of Ezekiel
Ezek 19:1-7
Moreover take thou up a lamentation for the princes of Israel, And say: Why did thy mother the lioness lie down among the lions, and bring up her whelps in the midst of young lions? And she brought out one of her whelps, and he became a lion: and he learned to catch the prey, and to devour men. And the nations heard of him, and took him, but not without receiving wounds: and they brought him in chains into the land of Egypt. But she seeing herself weakened, and that her hope was lost, took one of her young lions, and set him up for a lion. And he went up and down among the lions, and became a lion: and he learned to catch the prey, and to devour men. He learned to make widows, and to lay waste their cities: and the land became desolate, and the fulness thereof by the noise of his roaring.

℟. Blessed is the people * Whom the Lord of hosts hath blessed, saying O Israel thou art the work of Mine own hands, thou art Mine own inheritance.
℣. Blessed is the nation whose God is the Lord, and the people whom He hath chosen for His own inheritance.
℟. Whom the Lord of hosts hath blessed, saying O Israel thou art the work of Mine own hands, thou art Mine own inheritance.

Lesson II
Ezek 19:8-11
And the nations came together against him on every side out of the provinces, and they spread their net over him, in their wounds he was taken. And they put him into a cage, they brought him in chains to the king of Babylon: and they cast him into prison, that his voice should no more be heard upon the mountains of Israel. thy mother is like a vine in thy blood planted by the water: her fruit and her branches have grown out of many waters. And she hath strong rods to make sceptres for them that bear rule, and her stature was exalted among the branches: and she saw her height in the multitude of her branches.

℟. I am straitened on every side, and know not what to choose. * It is better for me to fall into the hands of men, than to sin against the law of my God.
℣. For if I do this thing, it is death unto me and if I do it not, I cannot escape your hands.
℟. It is better for me to fall into the hands of men, than to sin against the law of my God.

Lesson III
Ezek 19:12-14
But she was plucked up in wrath, and cast on the ground, and the burning wind dried up her fruit: her strong rods are withered, and dried up: the fire hath devoured her. And now she is transplanted into the desert, in a land not passable, and dry. And a fire is gone out from a rod of her branches, which hath devoured her fruit: so that she now hath no strong rod, to be a sceptre of rulers. This is a lamentation, and it shall be for a lamentation.

℟. The Lord hath sent His angel, and hath shut the lions' mouths, that * They have not hurt me forasmuch as before Him innocency was found in me.
℣. God hath sent forth His mercy and His truth, (and delivered) my soul from among the lions' whelps.
℟. They have not hurt me forasmuch as before Him innocency was found in me.
℣. Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, * and to the Holy Ghost.
℟. They have not hurt me forasmuch as before Him innocency was found in me.
