Tuesday of the first week of November
[Tempora/111-2]

Lesson I
Lesson from the book of Ezekiel
Ezek 3:1-4
And he said to me: Son of man, eat all that thou shalt find: eat this book, and go speak to the children of Israel. And I opened my mouth, and he caused me to eat that book. And he said to me: Son of man, thy belly shall eat, and thy bowels shall be filled with this book, which I give thee. And I did eat it: and it was sweet as honey in my mouth. And he said to me: Son of man, go to the house of Israel, and thou shalt speak my words to them.

℟. Before the face of thine anger, O God, the whole earth is troubled; * But Thou, O Lord, have mercy, and make not an end utterly.
℣. Lord our Ruler, how excellent is thy Name in all the earth!
℟. But Thou, O Lord, have mercy, and make not an end utterly.

Lesson II
Ezek 3:5-9
For thou art not sent to a people of a profound speech, and of an unknown tongue, but to the house of Israel: Nor to many nations of a strange speech, and of an unknown tongue, whose words thou canst not understand: and if thou wert sent to them, they would hearken to thee. But the house of Israel will not hearken to thee: because they will not hearken to me: for all the house of Israel are of a hard forehead and an obstinate heart. Behold I have made thy face stronger than their faces: and thy forehead harder than their foreheads. I have made thy face like an adamant and like flint: fear them not, neither be thou dismayed at their presence: for they are a provoking house.

℟. Fence Thou this city; O Lord, and let thine angels keep the walls thereof. * O Lord, hearken unto thy people with mercy.
℣. O Lord, let thine anger be turned away from thy people, and from thine holy city.
℟. O Lord, hearken unto thy people with mercy.

Lesson III
Ezek 3:10-13
And he said to me: Son of man, receive in thy heart, and hear with thy ears, all the words that I speak to thee: And go get thee in to them of the captivity, to the children of thy people, and thou shalt speak to them, and shalt say to them: Thus saith the Lord: If so be they will hear and will forbear. And the spirit took me up, and I heard behind me the voice of a great commotion, saying: Blessed be the glory of the Lord, from his place. And the noise of the wings of the living creatures striking one against another, and the noise of the wheels following the living creatures, and the noise of a great commotion.

℟. O Lord God! have mercy upon * The sinful nation, upon the people laden with iniquity.
℣. Let it repent thee concerning the transgression of thy people.
℟. The people laden with iniquity.
℣. Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, * and to the Holy Ghost.
℟. The people laden with iniquity.
