Friday of the first week of November
[Tempora/111-5]

Lesson I
Lesson from the book of Ezekiel
Ezek 15:1-5
And the word of the Lord came to me, saying: Son of man, what shall be made of the wood of the vine, out of all the trees of the woods that are among the trees of the forests? Shall wood be taken of if, to do any work, or shall a pin be made of it for any vessel to hang thereon? Behold it is cast into the fire for fuel: the fire hath consumed both ends thereof, and the midst thereof is reduced to ashes: shall it be useful for any work? Even when it was whole it was not fit for work: how much less, when the fire hath devoured and consumed it, shall any work be made of it?

℟. I have set watchmen upon thy walls, O Jerusalem; * Which shall never hold their peace day nor night, to praise the name of the Lord.
℣. They shall proclaim My might unto the nations, and declare My glory unto the Gentiles.
℟. Which shall never hold their peace day nor night, to praise the name of the Lord.

Lesson II
Ezek 15:6-8
Therefore thus saith the Lord God: As the vine tree among the trees of the forests which I have given to the fire to be consumed, so will I deliver up the inhabitants of Jerusalem. And I will set my face against them: they shall go out from fire, and fire shall consume them and you shall know that I am the Lord, when I shall have set my face against them. And I shall have made their land a wilderness, and desolate, because they have been transgressors, saith the Lord God.

℟. Hedge us about with thy wall that cannot be broken down, O Lord, and shield us continually with the arms of thy might. * O Lord God of Israel, deliver them that cry unto thee.
℣. Deliver us also according to thy marvellous works, and give glory to thy Name.
℟. O Lord God of Israel, deliver them that cry unto thee.

Lesson III
Ezek 16:1-5
And the word of the Lord came to me, saying: Son of man, make known to Jerusalem her abominations. And thou shalt say: Thus saith the Lord God to Jerusalem: thy root, and thy nativity is of the land of Chanaan, thy father was an Amorrhite, and thy mother a Cethite. And when thou wast born, in the day of thy nativity thy navel was not cut, neither wast thou washed with water for thy health, nor salted with salt, nor swaddled with clouts. No eye had pity on thee to do any of these things for thee, out of compassion to thee: but thou wast cast out upon the face of the earth in the abjection of thy soul, in the day that thou wast born.

℟. We looked for peace, and it came not we asked for good, and behold trouble. We acknowledge, O Lord, our wickedness. * Forget us not for ever.
℣. O Lord (our God) we have sinned, we have done ungodly, we have dealt unrighteously in all thine ordinances.
℟. Forget us not for ever.
℣. Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, * and to the Holy Ghost.
℟. Forget us not for ever.
