Friday of the second week of November
[Tempora/112-5]

Lesson I
Lesson from the book of Ezekiel
Ezek 43:1-5
And he brought me to the gate that looked towards the east. And behold the glory of the God of Israel came in by the way of the east: and his voice was like the noise of many waters, and the earth shone with his majesty. And I saw the vision according to the appearance which I had seen when he came to destroy the city: and the appearance was according to the vision which I had seen by the river Chobar: and I fell upon my face. And the majesty of the Lord went into the temple by the way of the gate that looked to the east. And the spirit lifted me up and brought me into the inner court: and behold the house was filled with the glory of the Lord.

℟. I have set watchmen upon thy walls, O Jerusalem; * Which shall never hold their peace day nor night, to praise the name of the Lord.
℣. They shall proclaim My might unto the nations, and declare My glory unto the Gentiles.
℟. Which shall never hold their peace day nor night, to praise the name of the Lord.

Lesson II
Ezek 43:6-8
And I heard one speaking to me out of the house, and the man that stood by me, Said to me: Son of man, the place of my throne, and the place of the soles of my feet, where I dwell in the midst of the children of Israel for ever: and the house of Israel shall no more profane my holy name, they and their kings by their fornications, and by the carcasses of their kings, and by the high places. They who have set their threshold by my threshold, and their posts by my posts: and there was but a wall between me and them: and they profaned my holy name by the abominations which they committed: for which reason I consumed them in my wrath.

℟. Hedge us about with thy wall that cannot be broken down, O Lord, and shield us continually with the arms of thy might. * O Lord God of Israel, deliver them that cry unto thee.
℣. Deliver us also according to thy marvellous works, and give glory to thy Name.
℟. O Lord God of Israel, deliver them that cry unto thee.

Lesson III
Ezek 43:9-11
Now therefore let them put away their fornications, and the carcasses of their kings far from me: and I will dwell in the midst of them for ever. But thou, son of man, shew to the house of Israel the temple, and let them be ashamed of their iniquities, and let them measure the building: And be ashamed of all that they have done. Shew them the form of the house, and of the fashion thereof, the goings out and the comings in, and the whole plan thereof, and all its ordinances, and all its order, and all its laws, and thou shalt write it in their sight: that they may keep the whole form thereof, and its ordinances, and do them.

℟. We looked for peace, and it came not we asked for good, and behold trouble. We acknowledge, O Lord, our wickedness. * Forget us not for ever.
℣. O Lord (our God) we have sinned, we have done ungodly, we have dealt unrighteously in all thine ordinances.
℟. Forget us not for ever.
℣. Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, * and to the Holy Ghost.
℟. Forget us not for ever.
