Tuesday of the second week of November
[Tempora/112-2]

Lesson I
Lesson from the book of Ezekiel
Ezek 34:1-4
And the word of the Lord came to me, saying: Son of man, prophesy concerning the shepherds of Israel: prophesy, and say to the shepherds: Thus saith the Lord God: Woe to the shepherds of Israel, that fed themselves: should not the hocks be fed by the shepherds? You ate the milk, end you clothed yourselves with the wool, and you killed that which was fat: but my flock you did not feed. The weak you have not strengthened, and that which was sick you have not healed, that which was broken you have not bound up, and that which was driven away you have not brought again, neither have you sought that which was lost: but you ruled over them with rigour, and with a high hand.

℟. Before the face of thine anger, O God, the whole earth is troubled; * But Thou, O Lord, have mercy, and make not an end utterly.
℣. Lord our Ruler, how excellent is thy Name in all the earth!
℟. But Thou, O Lord, have mercy, and make not an end utterly.

Lesson II
Ezek 34:5-9
And my sheep were scattered, because there was no shepherd: and they became the prey of all the beasts of the field, and were scattered. My sheep have wandered in every mountain, and in every high hill: and my flocks were scattered upon the face of the earth, and there was none that sought them, there was none, I say, that sought them. Therefore, ye shepherds, hear the word of the Lord: As I live, saith the Lord God, forasmuch as my flocks have been made a spoil, and my sheep are become a prey to all the beasts of the field, because there was no shepherd: for my shepherds did not seek after my flock, but the shepherds fed themselves, and fed not my flocks: Therefore, ye shepherds, hear the word of the Lord:

℟. Fence Thou this city; O Lord, and let thine angels keep the walls thereof. * O Lord, hearken unto thy people with mercy.
℣. O Lord, let thine anger be turned away from thy people, and from thine holy city.
℟. O Lord, hearken unto thy people with mercy.

Lesson III
Ezek 34:10-12
Thus saith the Lord God: Behold I myself come upon the shepherds, I will require my flock at their hand, and I will cause them to cease from feeding the flock any more, neither shall the shepherds feed themselves any more: and I will deliver my flock from their mouth, and it shall no more be meat for them. For thus saith the Lord God: Behold I myself will seek my sheep, and will visit them. As the shepherd visiteth his flock in the day when he shall be in the midst of his sheep that were scattered, so will I visit my sheep, and will deliver them out of all the places where they have been scattered in the cloudy and dark day.

℟. O Lord God! have mercy upon * The sinful nation, upon the people laden with iniquity.
℣. Let it repent thee concerning the transgression of thy people.
℟. The people laden with iniquity.
℣. Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, * and to the Holy Ghost.
℟. The people laden with iniquity.
