Friday of the third week of November
[Tempora/113-5]

Lesson I
Lesson from the book of Daniel
Dan 6:11-15
Wherefore those men carefully watching him, found Daniel praying and making supplication to his God. And they came and spoke to the king concerning the edict: O king, hast thou not decreed, that every man that should make a request to any of the gods, or men, for thirty days, but to thyself, O king, should be cast into the den of the lions? And the king answered them, saying: The word is true according to the decree of the Medes and Persians, which it is not lawful to violate. Then they answered, and said before the king: Daniel, who is of the children of the captivity of Juda, hath not regarded thy law, nor the decree that thou hast made: but three times a day he maketh his prayer. Now when the king had heard these words, he was very much grieved, and in behalf of Daniel he set his heart to deliver him and even till sunset he laboured to save him. But those men perceiving the king's design, said to him: Know thou, O king, that the law of the Medes and Persians is, that no decree which the king hath made, may be altered.

℟. I have set watchmen upon thy walls, O Jerusalem; * Which shall never hold their peace day nor night, to praise the name of the Lord.
℣. They shall proclaim My might unto the nations, and declare My glory unto the Gentiles.
℟. Which shall never hold their peace day nor night, to praise the name of the Lord.

Lesson II
Dan 6:16-20
Then the king commanded, and they brought Daniel, and cast him into the den of the lions. And the king said to Daniel: thy God, whom thou always servest, he will deliver thee. And a stone was brought, and laid upon the mouth of the den: which the king sealed with his own ring, and with the ring of his nobles, that nothing should be done against Daniel. And the king went away to his house and laid himself down without taking supper, and meat was not set before him, and even sleep departed from him. Then the king rising very early in the morning, went in haste to the lions' den: And coming near to the den, cried with a lamentable voice to Daniel, and said to him: Daniel, servant of the living God, hath thy God, whom thou servest always, been able, thinkest thou, to deliver thee from the lions?

℟. Hedge us about with thy wall that cannot be broken down, O Lord, and shield us continually with the arms of thy might. * O Lord God of Israel, deliver them that cry unto thee.
℣. Deliver us also according to thy marvellous works, and give glory to thy Name.
℟. O Lord God of Israel, deliver them that cry unto thee.

Lesson III
Dan 6:21-24
And Daniel answering the king, said: O king, live for ever: My God hath sent his angel, and hath shut up the mouths of the lions, and they have not hurt me: forasmuch as before him justice hath been found in me: yea and before thee, O king, I have done no offence. Then was the king exceeding glad for him, and he commanded that Daniel should be taken out of the den: and Daniel was taken out of the den, and no hurt was found in him, because he believed in his God. And by the king's commandment, those men were brought that had accused Daniel: and they were cast into the lions' den, they and their children, and their wives: and they did not reach the bottom of the den, before the lions caught them, and broke all their bones in pieces.

℟. We looked for peace, and it came not we asked for good, and behold trouble. We acknowledge, O Lord, our wickedness. * Forget us not for ever.
℣. O Lord (our God) we have sinned, we have done ungodly, we have dealt unrighteously in all thine ordinances.
℟. Forget us not for ever.
℣. Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, * and to the Holy Ghost.
℟. Forget us not for ever.
