Tuesday of the third week of November
[Tempora/113-2]

Lesson I
Lesson from the book of Daniel
Dan 3:14-15
And Nabuchodonosor the king spoke to them, and said: Is it true, O Sidrach, Misach, and Abdenago, that you do not worship my gods, nor adore the golden statue that I have set up? Now therefore if you be ready at what hour soever you shall hear the sound of the trumpet, flute, harp, sackbut, and psaltery, and symphony, and of all kind of music, prostrate yourselves, and adore the statue which I have made: but if you do not adore, you shall be cast the same hour into the furnace of burning fire: and who is the God that shall deliver you out of my hand?

℟. Before the face of thine anger, O God, the whole earth is troubled; * But Thou, O Lord, have mercy, and make not an end utterly.
℣. Lord our Ruler, how excellent is thy Name in all the earth!
℟. But Thou, O Lord, have mercy, and make not an end utterly.

Lesson II
Dan 3:16-19
Sidrach, Misach, and Abdenago answered and said to king Nabuchodonosor: We have no occasion to answer thee concerning this matter. For behold our God, whom we worship, is able to save us from the furnace of burning fire, and to deliver us out of thy hands, O king. But if he will not, be it known to thee, O king, that we will not worship thy gods, nor adore the golden statue which thou hast set up. Then was Nabuchodonosor filled with fury: and the countenance of his face was changed against Sidrach, Misach, and Abdenago, and he commanded that the furnace should be heated seven times more than it had been accustomed to be heated.

℟. Fence Thou this city; O Lord, and let thine angels keep the walls thereof. * O Lord, hearken unto thy people with mercy.
℣. O Lord, let thine anger be turned away from thy people, and from thine holy city.
℟. O Lord, hearken unto thy people with mercy.

Lesson III
Dan 3:21-24
And immediately these men were bound and were cast into the furnace of burning fire, with their coats, and their caps, and their shoes, and their garments. For the king's commandment was urgent, and the furnace was heated exceedingly. And the flame of the fire slew those men that had cast in Sidrach, Misach, and Abdenago. But these three men, that is, Sidrach, Misach, and Abdenago, fell down bound in the midst of the furnace of burning fire. And they walked in the midst of the flame, praising God and blessing the Lord.

℟. O Lord God! have mercy upon * The sinful nation, upon the people laden with iniquity.
℣. Let it repent thee concerning the transgression of thy people.
℟. The people laden with iniquity.
℣. Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, * and to the Holy Ghost.
℟. The people laden with iniquity.
