Thursday of the fourth week of November
[Tempora/114-4]

Lesson I
Lesson from the book of Amos
Amos 1:1-2
The words of Amos, who was among herdsmen of Thecua: which he saw concerning Israel in the days of Ozias king of Juda, and in the days of Jeroboam the son of Joas king of Israel two years before the earthquake. And he said: The Lord will roar from Sion, and utter his voice from Jerusalem: and the beautiful places of the shepherds have mourned, and the top of Carmel is withered.

℟. I saw the Lord sitting upon a throne, high and lifted up, and the whole earth was full of His glory; * And His train filled the temple.
℣. Above it stood the Seraphim each one had six wings.
℟. And His train filled the temple.

Lesson II
Amos 1:3-5
Thus saith the Lord: For three crimes of Damascus, and for four I will not convert it: because they have thrashed Galaad with iron wains. And I will send a fire into the house of Azael, and it shall devour the houses of Benadad. And I will break the bar of Damascus: and I will cut off the inhabitants from the plain of the idol, and him that holdeth the sceptre from the house of pleasure: and the people of Syria shall be carried away to Cyrene, saith the Lord.

℟. Look down, O Lord, from the dwelling-place of thine holiness, and take thought for us. O my God, incline thine ear, and hear. * Open thine eyes, and behold our desolation.
℣. Give ear, O Shepherd of Israel, Thou That leadest Joseph like a flock.
℟. Open thine eyes, and behold our desolation.

Lesson III
Amos 1:6-8
Thus saith the Lord: For three crimes of Gaza, and for four I will not convert it: because they have carried away a perfect captivity to shut them up in Edom. And I will send a fire on the wall of Gaza, and it shall devour the houses thereof. And I will cut off the inhabitant from Azotus, and him that holdeth the sceptre from Ascalon: and I will turn my hand against Accaron, and the rest of the Philistines shall perish, saith the Lord God.

℟. Consider, O Lord, how that the city sitteth solitary that was full of riches; how is she become as a widow, she that was great among the nations; * She hath none to comfort her, save thee, O our God.
℣. She weepeth sore in the night, and her tears are on her cheeks.
℟. She hath none to comfort her, save thee, O our God.
℣. Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, * and to the Holy Ghost.
℟. She hath none to comfort her, save thee, O our God.
