Tuesday of the fourth week of November
[Tempora/114-2]

Lesson I
Lesson from the book of Joel
Joel 1:1-4
The word of the Lord that came to Joel the son of Phatuel. Hear this, ye old men, and give ear, all ye inhabitants of the land: did this ever happen in your days, or in the days of your fathers? Tell ye of this to your children, and let your children tell their children, and their children to another generation. That which the palmerworm hath left, the locust hath eaten: and that which the locust hath left, the bruchus hath eaten: and that which the bruchus hath left, the mildew hath destroyed.

℟. Before the face of thine anger, O God, the whole earth is troubled; * But Thou, O Lord, have mercy, and make not an end utterly.
℣. Lord our Ruler, how excellent is thy Name in all the earth!
℟. But Thou, O Lord, have mercy, and make not an end utterly.

Lesson II
Joel 1:5-7
Awake, ye that are drunk, and weep, and mourn all ye that take delight in drinking sweet wine: for it is cut off from your mouth. For a nation is come up upon my land, strong and without number: his teeth are like the teeth of a lion: and his cheek teeth as of a lion's whelp. He hath laid my vineyard waste, and hath pilled off the bark of my fig tree: he hath stripped it bare, and cast it away; the branches thereof are made white.

℟. Fence Thou this city; O Lord, and let thine angels keep the walls thereof. * O Lord, hearken unto thy people with mercy.
℣. O Lord, let thine anger be turned away from thy people, and from thine holy city.
℟. O Lord, hearken unto thy people with mercy.

Lesson III
Joel 1:8-11
Lament like a virgin girded with sackcloth for the husband of her youth. Sacrifice and libation is cut off from the house of the Lord: the priests, the Lord's ministers, have mourned: The country is destroyed, the ground hath mourned: for the corn is wasted, the wine is confounded, the oil hath languished. The husbandmen are ashamed, the vinedressers have howled for the wheat, and for the barley, because the harvest of the field is perished.

℟. O Lord God! have mercy upon * The sinful nation, upon the people laden with iniquity.
℣. Let it repent thee concerning the transgression of thy people.
℟. The people laden with iniquity.
℣. Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, * and to the Holy Ghost.
℟. The people laden with iniquity.
