Wednesday of the fourth week of November
[Tempora/114-3]

Lesson I
Lesson from the book of Joel
Joel 3:1-3
For behold in those days, and in that time when I shall bring back the captivity of Juda and Jerusalem: I will gather together all nations, and will bring them down into the valley of Josaphat: and I will plead with them there for my people, and for my inheritance Israel, whom they have scattered among the nations, and have parted my land. And they have cast lots upon my people: and the boy they have put in the stews, and the girl they have sold for wine, that they might drink.

℟. I will show thee, O man, what is good, and what doth the Lord require of thee, but to * Do justice and judgment, and to walk humbly with thy God.
℣. Trust in the Lord, and do good, and dwell in the land.
℟. Do justice and judgment, and walk humbly with thy God.

Lesson II
Joel 3:4-7
But what have you to do with me, O Tyre, and Sidon, and all the coast of the Philistines? will you revenge yourselves on me? and if you revenge yourselves on me, I will very soon return you a recompense upon your own head. For you have taken away my silver and my gold: and my desirable and most beautiful things you have carried into your temples. And the children of Juda, and the children of Jerusalem you have sold to the children of the Greeks, that you might remove them far off from their own country. Behold, I will raise them up out of the place wherein you have sold them: and I will return your recompense upon your own heads.

℟. I am straitened on every side, and know not what to choose. * It is better for me to fall into the hands of men, than to sin against the law of my God.
℣. For if I do this thing, it is death unto me and if I do it not, I cannot escape your hands.
℟. It is better for me to fall into the hands of men, than to sin against the law of my God.

Lesson III
Joel 3:8-12
And I will sell your sons, and your daughters by the hands of the children of Juda, and they shall sell them to the Sabeans, a nation far off, for the Lord hath spoken it. Proclaim ye this among the nations: prepare war, rouse up the strong: let them come, let all the men of war come up. Cut your ploughshares into swords, and your spades into spears. Let the weak say: I am strong. Break forth, and come, all ye nations, from round about, and gather yourselves together: there will the Lord cause all thy strong ones to fall down. Let them arise, and let the nations come up into the valley of Josaphat: for there I will sit to judge all nations round about.

℟. The Lord hath sent His angel, and hath shut the lions' mouths, that * They have not hurt me forasmuch as before Him innocency was found in me.
℣. God hath sent forth His mercy and His truth, (and delivered) my soul from among the lions' whelps.
℟. They have not hurt me forasmuch as before Him innocency was found in me.
℣. Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, * and to the Holy Ghost.
℟. They have not hurt me forasmuch as before Him innocency was found in me.
