Friday of the fourth week of November
[Tempora/114-5]

Lesson I
Lesson from the book of Abdias
Abd 1:1-4
The vision of Abdias. Thus saith the Lord God to Edom: We have heard a rumour from the Lord, and he hath sent an ambassador to the nations: Arise, and let us rise up to battle against him. Behold I have made thee small among the nations: thou art exceeding contemptible. The pride of thy heart hath lifted thee up, who dwellest in the clefts of the rocks, and settest up thy throne on high: who sayest in thy heart: Who shall bring me down to the ground Though thou be exalted as an eagle, and though thou set thy nest among the stars: thence will I bring thee down, saith the Lord.

℟. I have set watchmen upon thy walls, O Jerusalem; * Which shall never hold their peace day nor night, to praise the name of the Lord.
℣. They shall proclaim My might unto the nations, and declare My glory unto the Gentiles.
℟. Which shall never hold their peace day nor night, to praise the name of the Lord.

Lesson II
Abd 1:5-7
If thieves had gone in to thee, if robbers by night, how wouldst thou have held thy peace? would they not have stolen till they had enough if the grapegatherers had come in to thee, would they not have left thee at the least a cluster? How have they searched Esau, how have they sought out his hidden things? They have sent thee out even to the border: all the men of thy confederacy have deceived thee: the men of thy peace have prevailed against thee: they that eat with thee shall lay snares under thee: there is no wisdom in him.

℟. Hedge us about with thy wall that cannot be broken down, O Lord, and shield us continually with the arms of thy might. * O Lord God of Israel, deliver them that cry unto thee.
℣. Deliver us also according to thy marvellous works, and give glory to thy Name.
℟. O Lord God of Israel, deliver them that cry unto thee.
℣. Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, * and to the Holy Ghost.
℟. O Lord God of Israel, deliver them that cry unto thee.
