Saturday of the fourth week of November
[Tempora/114-6]

Lesson I
Lesson from the book of Jonas
Jonah 1:1-4
Now the word of the Lord came to Jonas the son of Amathi, saying: Arise, and go to Ninive the great city, and preach in it: for the wickedness thereof is come up before me. And Jonas rose up to flee into Tharsis from the face of the Lord, and he went down to Joppe, and found a ship going to Tharsis: and he paid the fare thereof, and went down into it, to go with them to Tharsis from the face of the Lord. But the Lord sent a great wind into the sea: and a great tempest was raised in the sea, and the ship was in danger to be broken.

℟. Blessed is the people * Whom the Lord of hosts hath blessed, saying O Israel thou art the work of Mine own hands, thou art Mine own inheritance.
℣. Blessed is the nation whose God is the Lord, and the people whom He hath chosen for His own inheritance.
℟. Whom the Lord of hosts hath blessed, saying O Israel thou art the work of Mine own hands, thou art Mine own inheritance.

Lesson II
Jonah 1:5-7
And the mariners were afraid, and the men cried to their god: and they cast forth the wares that were in the ship, into the sea, to lighten it of them: and Jonas went down into the inner part of the ship, and fell into a deep sleep. And the shipmaster came to him, and said to him: Why art thou fast asleep? rise up, call upon thy God, if so be that God will think of us, that we may not perish. And they said every one to his fellow: Come, and let us cast lots, that we may know why this evil is upon us. And they cast lots, and the lot fell upon Jonas.

℟. I am straitened on every side, and know not what to choose. * It is better for me to fall into the hands of men, than to sin against the law of my God.
℣. For if I do this thing, it is death unto me and if I do it not, I cannot escape your hands.
℟. It is better for me to fall into the hands of men, than to sin against the law of my God.

Lesson III
Jonah 1:8-12
And they said to him: Tell us for what cause this evil is upon us, what is thy business? of what country art thou? and whither goest thou? or of what people art thou? And he said to them: I am a Hebrew, and I fear the Lord the God of heaven, who made both the sea and the dry land. And the men were greatly afraid, and they said to him: Why hast thou done this? (for the men knew that he fled from the face of the Lord: because he had told them.) And they said to him: What shall we do to thee, that the sea may be calm to us? for the sea flowed and swelled. And he said to them: Take me up, and cast me into the sea, and the sea shall be calm to you: for I know that for my sake this great tempest is upon you.

℟. The Lord hath sent His angel, and hath shut the lions' mouths, that * They have not hurt me forasmuch as before Him innocency was found in me.
℣. God hath sent forth His mercy and His truth, (and delivered) my soul from among the lions' whelps.
℟. They have not hurt me forasmuch as before Him innocency was found in me.
℣. Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, * and to the Holy Ghost.
℟. They have not hurt me forasmuch as before Him innocency was found in me.
