Friday of the fifth week of November
[Tempora/115-5]

Lesson I
Lesson from the book of Zacharias
Zech 1:1-3
In the eighth month, in the second year of king Darius, the word of the Lord came to Zacharias the son of Barachias, the son of Addo, the prophet, saying: The Lord hath been exceeding angry with your fathers. And thou shalt say to them: Thus saith the Lord of hosts: Turn ye to me, saith the Lord of hosts: and I will turn to you, saith the Lord of hosts.

℟. I have set watchmen upon thy walls, O Jerusalem; * Which shall never hold their peace day nor night, to praise the name of the Lord.
℣. They shall proclaim My might unto the nations, and declare My glory unto the Gentiles.
℟. Which shall never hold their peace day nor night, to praise the name of the Lord.

Lesson II
Zech 1:4-5
Be not as your fathers, to whom the former prophets have cried, saying: Thus saith the Lord of hosts: Turn ye from your evil ways, and from your wicked thoughts: but they did not give ear, neither did they hearken to me, saith the Lord. Your fathers, where are they? and the prophets, shall they live always?

℟. Hedge us about with thy wall that cannot be broken down, O Lord, and shield us continually with the arms of thy might. * O Lord God of Israel, deliver them that cry unto thee.
℣. Deliver us also according to thy marvellous works, and give glory to thy Name.
℟. O Lord God of Israel, deliver them that cry unto thee.

Lesson III
Zech 1:6
But yet my words, and my ordinances, which I gave in charge to my servants the prophets, did they not take hold of your fathers, and they returned, and said: As the Lord of hosts thought to do to us according to our ways, and according to our devices, so he hath done to us.

℟. We looked for peace, and it came not we asked for good, and behold trouble. We acknowledge, O Lord, our wickedness. * Forget us not for ever.
℣. O Lord (our God) we have sinned, we have done ungodly, we have dealt unrighteously in all thine ordinances.
℟. Forget us not for ever.
℣. Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, * and to the Holy Ghost.
℟. Forget us not for ever.
