Tuesday of the fifth week of November
[Tempora/115-2]

Lesson I
Lesson from the book of Habacuc
Hab 1:1-4
The burden that Habacuc the prophet saw. How long, O Lord, shall I cry, and thou wilt not hear? shall I cry out to thee suffering violence, and thou wilt not save? Why hast thou shewn me iniquity and grievance, to see rapine and injustice before me? and there is a judgment, but opposition is more powerful. Therefore the law is torn in pieces, and judgment cometh not to the end: because the wicked prevaileth against the just, therefore wrong judgment goeth forth.

℟. Before the face of thine anger, O God, the whole earth is troubled; * But Thou, O Lord, have mercy, and make not an end utterly.
℣. Lord our Ruler, how excellent is thy Name in all the earth!
℟. But Thou, O Lord, have mercy, and make not an end utterly.

Lesson II
Hab 1:5-7
Behold ye among the nations, and see: wonder, and be astonished: for a work is done in your days, which no man will believe when it shall be told. For behold, I will raise up the Chaldeans, a bitter and swift nation, marching upon the breadth of the earth, to possess the dwelling places that are not their own. They are dreadful, and terrible: from themselves shall their judgment, and their burden proceed.

℟. Fence Thou this city; O Lord, and let thine angels keep the walls thereof. * O Lord, hearken unto thy people with mercy.
℣. O Lord, let thine anger be turned away from thy people, and from thine holy city.
℟. O Lord, hearken unto thy people with mercy.

Lesson III
Hab 1:8-10
Their horses are lighter than leopards, and swifter than evening wolves; and their horsemen shall be spread abroad: for their horsemen shall come from afar, they shall fly as an eagle that maketh haste to eat. They shall all come to the prey, their face is like a burning wind: and they shall gather together captives as the sand. And their prince shall triumph over kings, and princes shall be his laughingstock: and he shall laugh at every stronghold, and shall cast up a mount, and shall take it.

℟. O Lord God! have mercy upon * The sinful nation, upon the people laden with iniquity.
℣. Let it repent thee concerning the transgression of thy people.
℟. The people laden with iniquity.
℣. Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, * and to the Holy Ghost.
℟. The people laden with iniquity.
