Monday of the fifth week of November
[Tempora/115-1]

Lesson I
Lesson from the book of Nahum
Nah 1:1-4
The burden of Ninive. The book of the vision of Nahum the Elcesite. The Lord is a jealous God, and a revenger: the Lord is a revenger, and hath wrath: the Lord taketh vengeance on his adversaries, and he is angry with his enemies. The Lord is patient, and great in power, and will not cleanse and acquit the guilty. The Lord's ways are in a tempest, and a whirlwind, and clouds are the dust of his feet. He rebuketh the sea, and drieth it up: and bringeth all the rivers to be a desert.

℟. He hath redeemed His people, and ransomed them therefore they shall come and sing in the height of Zion, and shall rejoice in the goodness of the Lord, for wheat, and for wine, and for oil * And they shall hunger no more.
℣. And their soul shall be as a watered garden.
℟. And they shall hunger no more.

Lesson II
Nah 1:4-6
Basan languisheth and Carmel: and the dower of Libanus fadeth away. The mountains tremble at him, and the hills are made desolate: and the earth hath quaked at his presence, and the world, and all that dwell therein. Who can stand before the face of his indignation? and who shall resist in the fierceness of his anger? his indignation is poured out like fire: and the rocks are melted by him.

℟. I am straitened on every side, and know not what to choose. * It is better for me to fall into the hands of men, than to sin against the law of my God.
℣. For if I do this thing, it is death unto me and if I do it not, I cannot escape your hands.
℟. It is better for me to fall into the hands of men, than to sin against the law of my God.

Lesson III
Nah 1:7-10
The Lord is good and giveth strength in the day of trouble: and knoweth them that hope in him. But with a flood that passeth by, he will make an utter end of the place thereof: and darkness shall pursue his enemies. What do ye devise against the Lord? he will make an utter end: there shall not rise a double affliction. For as thorns embrace one another: so while they are feasting and drinking together, they shall be consumed as stubble that is fully dry.

℟. The Lord hath sent His angel, and hath shut the lions' mouths, that * They have not hurt me forasmuch as before Him innocency was found in me.
℣. God hath sent forth His mercy and His truth, (and delivered) my soul from among the lions' whelps.
℟. They have not hurt me forasmuch as before Him innocency was found in me.
℣. Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, * and to the Holy Ghost.
℟. They have not hurt me forasmuch as before Him innocency was found in me.
