Thursday of the fifth week of November
[Tempora/115-4]

Lesson I
Lesson from the book of Aggeus
Agg 1:1-2
In the second year of Darius the king, in the sixth month, in the first day of the month, the word of the Lord came by the hand of Aggeus the prophet, to Zorobabel the son of Salathiel, governor of Juda, and to Jesus the son of Josedec the high priest, saying: Thus saith the Lord of hosts, saying: This people saith: The time is not yet come for building the house of the Lord.

℟. I saw the Lord sitting upon a throne, high and lifted up, and the whole earth was full of His glory; * And His train filled the temple.
℣. Above it stood the Seraphim each one had six wings.
℟. And His train filled the temple.

Lesson II
Agg 1:3-6
And the word of the Lord came by the hand of Aggeus the prophet, saying: Is it time for you to dwell in ceiled houses, and this house lie desolate? And now thus saith the Lord of hosts: Set your hearts to consider your ways. You have sowed much, and brought in little: you have eaten, but have not had enough: you have drunk, but have not been filled with drink: you have clothed yourselves, but have not been warmed: and he that hath earned wages, put them into a bag with holes.

℟. Look down, O Lord, from the dwelling-place of thine holiness, and take thought for us. O my God, incline thine ear, and hear. * Open thine eyes, and behold our desolation.
℣. Give ear, O Shepherd of Israel, Thou That leadest Joseph like a flock.
℟. Open thine eyes, and behold our desolation.

Lesson III
Agg 1:7-10
Thus saith the Lord of hosts: Set your hearts upon your ways: Go up to the mountain, bring timber, and build the house: and it shall be acceptable to me, and I shall be glorified, saith the Lord. You have looked for more, and behold it became less, and you brought it home, and I blowed it away: why, saith the Lord of hosts? because my house is desolate, and you make haste every man to his own house. Therefore the heavens over you were stayed from giving dew, and the earth was hindered from yielding her fruits:

℟. Consider, O Lord, how that the city sitteth solitary that was full of riches; how is she become as a widow, she that was great among the nations; * She hath none to comfort her, save thee, O our God.
℣. She weepeth sore in the night, and her tears are on her cheeks.
℟. She hath none to comfort her, save thee, O our God.
℣. Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, * and to the Holy Ghost.
℟. She hath none to comfort her, save thee, O our God.
