Wednesday of the fifth week of November
[Tempora/115-3]

Lesson I
Lesson from the book of Sophonias
Zeph 1:1-3
The word of the Lord that came to Sophonias the son of Chusi, the son of Godolias, the son of Amarias, the son of Ezechias, in the days of Josias the son of Amon king of Juda. Gathering, I will gather together all things from off the face of the land, saith the Lord: I will gather man, and beast, I will gather the birds of the air, and the fishes of the sea: and the ungodly shall meet with ruin: and I will destroy men from off the face of the land, saith the Lord.

℟. I will show thee, O man, what is good, and what doth the Lord require of thee, but to * Do justice and judgment, and to walk humbly with thy God.
℣. Trust in the Lord, and do good, and dwell in the land.
℟. Do justice and judgment, and walk humbly with thy God.

Lesson II
Zeph 1:4-6
And I will stretch out my hand upon Juda, and upon all the inhabitants of Jerusalem: and I will destroy out of this place the remnant of Baal, and the names of the wardens of the temples with the priests: And them that worship the host of heaven upon the tops of houses, and them that adore, and swear by the Lord, and swear by Melchom. And them that turn away from following after the Lord, and that have not sought the Lord, nor searched after him.

℟. I am straitened on every side, and know not what to choose. * It is better for me to fall into the hands of men, than to sin against the law of my God.
℣. For if I do this thing, it is death unto me and if I do it not, I cannot escape your hands.
℟. It is better for me to fall into the hands of men, than to sin against the law of my God.

Lesson III
Zeph 1:7-9
Be silent before the face of the Lord God: for the day of the Lord is near, for the Lord hath prepared a victim, he hath sanctified his guests. And it shall come to pass in the day of the victim of the Lord, that I will visit upon the princes, and upon the king's sons, and upon all such as are clothed with strange apparel. And I will visit in that day upon every one that entereth arrogantly over the threshold: them that fill the house of the Lord their God with iniquity and deceit.

℟. The Lord hath sent His angel, and hath shut the lions' mouths, that * They have not hurt me forasmuch as before Him innocency was found in me.
℣. God hath sent forth His mercy and His truth, (and delivered) my soul from among the lions' whelps.
℟. They have not hurt me forasmuch as before Him innocency was found in me.
℣. Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, * and to the Holy Ghost.
℟. They have not hurt me forasmuch as before Him innocency was found in me.
