Thursday of the First Week of Advent
Feria major
[Tempora/Adv1-4]

Lesson I
Lesson from the book of Isaias
Isa 4:1-3
And in that day seven women shall take hold of one man, saying: We will eat our own bread, and wear our own apparel: only let us be called by thy name, take away our reproach. In that day the bud of the Lord shall be in magnificence and glory, and the fruit of the earth shall be high, and a great joy to them that shall have escaped of Israel. And it shall come to pass, that every one that shall be left in Sion, and that shall remain in Jerusalem, shall be called holy, every one that is written in life in Jerusalem.

℟. Receive, O Virgin Mary, receive the word of the Lord, which is sent thee by His Angel; thou shalt conceive, and shalt bring forth God and Man together. * And thou shalt be called blessed among all women.
℣. Thou shalt bring forth a son, and remain a maiden undefiled thou shalt conceive and be a Mother, still Virgin unspotted.
℟. And thou shalt be called blessed among all women.

Lesson II
Isa 5:1-4
I will sing to my beloved the canticle of my cousin concerning his vineyard. My beloved had a vineyard on a hill in a fruitful place. And he fenced it in, and picked the stones out of it, and planted it with the choicest vines, and built a tower in the midst thereof, and set up a winepress therein: and he looked that it should bring forth grapes, and it brought forth wild grapes. And now, O ye inhabitants of Jerusalem, and ye men of Juda, judge between me and my vineyard. What is there that I ought to do more to my vineyard, that I have not done to it? was it that I looked that it should bring forth grapes, and it hath brought forth wild grapes?

℟. I saw in the night visions, and, behold, the Son of man came with the clouds of heaven, and there was given Him a Kingdom, and glory; * And all people, nations, and languages shall serve Him.
℣. His dominion is an everlasting dominion which shall not pass away, and His Kingdom that which shall not be destroyed.
℟. And all people, nations, and languages shall serve Him.

Lesson III
Isa 5:5-7
And now I will shew you what I will do to my vineyard. I will take away the hedge thereof, and it shall be wasted: I will break down the wall thereof, and it shall be trodden down. And I will make it desolate: it shall not be pruned, and it shall not be digged: but briers and thorns shall come up: and I will command the clouds to rain no rain upon it. For the vineyard of the Lord of hosts is the house of Israel: and the man of Juda, his pleasant plant: and I looked that he should do judgment, and behold iniquity: and do justice, and behold a cry.

℟. The Angel Gabriel was sent to Mary, a Virgin espoused to Joseph, to bring unto her the word of the Lord, and when the Virgin saw the light, she was afraid. Fear not, Mary, for thou hast found grace from the Lord. * Behold, thou shalt conceive and bring forth a son, and He shall be called the Son of the Highest.
℣. The Lord God shall give unto Him the throne of His father David, and He shall reign over the house of Jacob for ever.
℟. Behold, thou shalt conceive, and bring forth a son, and He shall be called the Son of the Highest.
℣. Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, * and to the Holy Ghost.
℟. Behold, thou shalt conceive and bring forth a son, and He shall be called the Son of the Highest.
