Monday of the First Week of Advent
Feria major
[Tempora/Adv1-1]

Lesson I
Lesson from the book of Isaias
Isa 1:16-18
Wash yourselves, be clean, take away the evil of your devices from my eyes: cease to do perversely, Learn to do well: seek judgment, relieve the oppressed, judge for the fatherless, defend the widow. And then come, and accuse me, saith the Lord: if your sins be as scarlet, they shall be made as white as snow: and if they be red as crimson, they shall be white as wool.

℟. Receive, O Virgin Mary, receive the word of the Lord, which is sent thee by His Angel; thou shalt conceive, and shalt bring forth God and Man together. * And thou shalt be called blessed among all women.
℣. Thou shalt bring forth a son, and remain a maiden undefiled thou shalt conceive and be a Mother, still Virgin unspotted.
℟. And thou shalt be called blessed among all women.

Lesson II
Isa 1:19-23
if you be willing, and will hearken to me, you shall eat the good things of the land. But if you will not, and will provoke me to wrath: the sword shall devour you because the mouth of the Lord hath spoken it. How is the faithful city, that was full of judgment, become a harlot? justice dwelt in it, but now murderers. thy silver is turned into dross: thy wine is mingled with water. thy princes are faithless, companions of thieves: they all love bribes, they run after rewards. They judge not for the fatherless: and the widow's cometh not in to them.

℟. Sing, O heavens; and be joyful, O earth; and break forth into singing, O mountains, for our Lord will come; * And will have mercy on His afflicted.
℣. In His days shall righteousness flourish and abundance of peace.
℟. And will have mercy upon His afflicted.

Lesson III
Isa 1:24-28
Therefore saith the Lord the God of hosts, the mighty one of Israel: Ah! I will comfort myself over my adversaries: and I will be revenged of my enemies. And I will turn my hand to thee, and I will clean purge away thy dross, and I will take away all thy tin. And I will restore thy judges as they were before, and thy counsellors as of old. After this thou shalt be called the city of the just, a faithful city. Sion shall be redeemed in judgment, and they shall bring her back in justice. And he shall destroy the wicked, and the sinners together: and they that have forsaken the Lord, shall be consumed.

℟. There shall no strangers pass through Jerusalem any more * For in that day the mountains shall drop down sweet wine, and the hills shall flow with milk and honey, saith the Lord.
℣. God shall come from Lebanon, and the Holy One from the thick and shady mountain.
℟. For in that day the mountains shall drop down sweet wine, and the hills shall flow with milk and honey, saith the Lord.
℣. Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, * and to the Holy Ghost.
℟. For in that day the mountains shall drop down sweet wine, and the hills shall flow with milk and honey, saith the Lord.
