Friday of the First Week of Advent
Feria major
[Tempora/Adv1-5]

Lesson I
Lesson from the book of Isaias
Isa 6:1-3
In the year that king Ozias died, I saw the Lord sitting upon a throne high and elevated: and his train filled the temple. Upon it stood the seraphims: the one had six wings, and the other had six wings: with two they covered his face, and with two they covered his feet, and with two they flew. And they cried one to another, and said: Holy, holy, holy, the Lord God of hosts, all the earth is full of his glory.

℟. Hail, Mary, full of grace; the Lord is with thee; * The Holy Ghost shall come upon thee, and the power of the Highest shall overshadow thee; therefore, also that Holy Thing Which shall be born of thee shall be called the Son of God.
℣. How shall this be, seeing I know not a man? And the Angel answered and said unto her,
℟. The Holy Ghost shall come upon thee, and the power of the Highest shall overshadow thee; therefore, also that Holy Thing Which shall be born of thee shall be called the Son of God.

Lesson II
Isa 6:4-7
And the lintels of the doors were moved at the voice of him that cried, and the house was filled with smoke. And I said: Woe is me, because I have held my peace; because I am a man of unclean lips, and I dwell in the midst of a people that hath unclean lips, and I have seen with my eyes the King the Lord of hosts. And one of the seraphims flew to me, and in his hand was a live coal, which he had taken with the tongs off the altar. And he touched my mouth, and said: Behold this hath touched thy lips, and thy iniquities shall be taken away, and thy sin shall be cleansed.

℟. We look for the Saviour, the Lord Jesus Christ; * Who shall change our vile body, that it may be fashioned like unto His glorious Body.
℣. We should live soberly, and righteously, and godly in this present world, looking for that blessed hope, and the glorious appearing of the great God.
℟. Who shall change our vile body, that it may be fashioned like unto His glorious Body.

Lesson III
Isa 6:8-10
And I heard the voice of the Lord, saying: Whom shall I send? and who shall go for us? And I said: Lo, here am I, send me. And he said: Go, and thou shalt say to this people: Hearing, hear, and understand not: and see the vision, and know it not. Blind the heart of this people, and make their ears heavy, and shut their eyes: lest they see with their eyes, and hear with their ears, and understand with their heart, and be converted and I heal them.

℟. O my Lord, send I pray thee, Him Whom Thou wilt send; see the affliction of thy people. As Thou hast promised, come; * And deliver us.
℣. Give ear, O Shepherd of Israel, Thou That leadest Joseph like a flock, Thou That sittest upon the Cherubim!
℟. As Thou hast promised, come.
℣. Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, * and to the Holy Ghost.
℟. And deliver us.
