Saturday of the First Week of Advent
Feria major
[Tempora/Adv1-6]

Lesson I
Lesson from the book of Isaias
Isa 7:1-3
And it came to pass in the days of Achaz the son of Joathan, the son of Ozias, king of Juda, that Basin king of Syria, and Phacee the son of Romelia king of Israel, came up to Jerusalem, to fight against it: but they could not prevail over it. And they told the house of David, saying: Syria hath rested upon Ephraim, and his heart was moved, and the heart of his people, as the trees of the woods are moved with the wind. And the Lord said to Isaias: Go forth to meet Achaz, thou and Jasub thy son that is left, to the conduit in the upper pool, in the way of the fuller's field.

℟. Behold, the Virgin shall conceive, and bear a son, saith the Lord; * And His name shall be called Wonderful, the Mighty God.
℣. He shall sit upon the throne of David, and upon his kingdom for ever.
℟. And His name shall be called Wonderful, the Mighty God.

Lesson II
Isa 7:4-6
And thou shalt say to him: See thou be quiet: fear not, and let not thy heart be afraid of the two tails of these fire brands, smoking with the wrath of the fury of Rasin king of Syria, and of the son of Romelia. Because Syria hath taken counsel against thee, unto the evil of Ephraim and the son of Romelia, saying: Let us go up to Juda, and rouse it up, and draw it away to us, and make the son of Tabeel king in the midst thereof.

℟. Hear the word of the Lord, O ye nations, and declare it in the ends of the earth; * And in the isles afar off, and say: Our Saviour shall come.
℣. Declare it and make it known, lift up your voice and cry aloud.
℟. And in the isles afar off, and say: Our Saviour shall come.

Lesson III
Isa 7:10-15
And the Lord spoke again to Achaz, saying: Ask thee a sign of the Lord thy God either unto the depth of hell, or unto the height above. And Achaz said: I will not ask, and I will not tempt the Lord. And he said: Hear ye therefore, O house of David: Is it a small thing for you to be grievous to men, that you are grievous to my God also? Therefore the Lord himself shall give you a sign. Behold a virgin shall conceive, and bear a son, and his name shall be called Emmanuel. He shall eat butter and honey, that he may know to refuse the evil, and to choose the good.

℟. Behold, the days come, saith the Lord, that I will raise unto David a righteous Branch; and a King shall reign in wisdom and shall execute judgment and justice in the earth: * And this is His name whereby He shall be called: * The Lord our Righteous one.
℣. In His days Judah shall be saved, and Israel shall dwell safely.
℟. And this is His name whereby He shall be called.
℣. Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, * and to the Holy Ghost.
℟. The Lord our Righteous one.
