Tuesday of the First Week of Advent
Feria major
[Tempora/Adv1-2]

Lesson I
Lesson from the book of Isaias
Isa 2:1-3
The word that Isaias the son of Amos saw, concerning Juda and Jerusalem. And in the last days the mountain of the house of the Lord shall be prepared on the top of mountains, and it shall be exalted above the hills, and all nations shall flow unto it. And many people shall go, and say: Come and let us go up to the mountain of the Lord, and to the house of the God of Jacob, and he will teach us his ways, and we will walk in his paths: for the law shall come forth from Sion, and the word of the Lord from Jerusalem.

℟. O ye mountains of Israel, shoot forth your branches and blossom and bring forth fruit. * The day of the Lord is at hand to come.
℣. Drop down, ye heavens, from above, and let the skies pour down the Righteous One; let the earth open, and let her bring forth the Saviour.
℟. The day of the Lord is at hand to come.

Lesson II
Isa 2:4-6
And he shall judge the Gentiles, and rebuke many people: and they shall turn their swords into ploughshares, and their spears into sickles: nation shall not lift up sword against nation, neither shall they be exercised any more to war. O house of Jacob, come ye, and let us walk in the light of the Lord. For thou hast cast off thy people, the house of Jacob: because they are filled as in times past, and have had soothsayers as the Philistines, and have adhered to strange children.

℟. Let the mountains break forth into singing, and the hills bring forth righteousness * For the Lord, the Light of the world, cometh with power.
℣. Out of Zion shall go forth the law, and the word of the Lord from Jerusalem.
℟. For the Lord, the Light of the world, cometh with power.

Lesson III
Isa 2:7-9
Their land is filled with silver and gold: and there is no end of their treasures. And their land is filled with horses: and their chariots are innumerable. Their land also is full of idols: they have adored the work of their own hands, which their own fingers have made. And man hath bowed himself down, and man hath been debased: therefore forgive them not.

℟. Behold, I, the Lord your God, come from the South * To visit you in peace.
℣. I will look again upon you and make you to increase ye shall be multiplied, and I will establish My covenant with you.
℟. To visit you in peace.
℣. Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, * and to the Holy Ghost.
℟. To visit you in peace.
