Wednesday of the First Week of Advent
Feria major
[Tempora/Adv1-3]

Lesson I
Lesson from the book of Isaias
Isa 3:1-4
For behold, the sovereign the Lord of hosts shall take away from Jerusalem, and from Juda the valiant and the strong, the whole strength of bread, and the whole strength of water. The strong man, and the man of war, the judge, and the prophet, and the cunning man, and the ancient. The captain over fifty, and the honourable in countenance, and the counsellor, and the architect, and the skilful in eloquent speech. And I will give children to be their princes, and the effeminate shall rule over them.

℟. Christ our King cometh. * And John hath testified of Him, that He is the Lamb that should come!
℣. The kings shall shut their mouths at Him, all nations shall serve Him.
℟. And John hath testified of Him, that He is the Lamb that should come!

Lesson II
Isa 3:5-7
And the people shall rush one upon another, and every man against his neighbour: the child shall make it tumult against the ancient, and the base against the honourable. For a man shall take hold of his brother, one of the house of his father, saying: Thou hast a garment, be thou our ruler, and let this ruin be under thy hand. In that day he shall answer, saying: I am no healer, and in my house there is no bread, nor clothing: make me not ruler of the people.

℟. Of a long time, said Ezekiel the Prophet, I saw the gate shut behold, God went forth from it before the ages for the salvation of the world. * And it was shut again, for it is a figure of the Virgin, in that after child-birth she remained a Virgin still.
℣. The Lord alone shall enter by the gate that thou savest.
℟. And it was shut again, for it is a figure of the Virgin, in that after child-birth she remained a Virgin still.

Lesson III
Isa 3:8-11
For Jerusalem is ruined, and Juda is fallen: because their tongue, and their devices are against the Lord, to provoke the eyes of his majesty. The shew of their countenance hath answered them: and they have proclaimed abroad their sin as Sodom, and they have not hid it: woe to their souls, for evils are rendered to them. Say to the just man that it is well, for he shall eat the fruit of his doings. Woe to the wicked unto evil: for the reward of his hands shall be given him.

℟. Behold, the days come, saith the Lord, that I will raise unto David a righteous Branch; and a King shall reign in wisdom and shall execute judgment and justice in the earth: * And this is His name whereby He shall be called: * The Lord our Righteous one.
℣. In His days Judah shall be saved, and Israel shall dwell safely.
℟. And this is His name whereby He shall be called.
℣. Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, * and to the Holy Ghost.
℟. The Lord our Righteous one.
