Wednesday of the Second Week of Advent
Feria major
[Tempora/Adv2-3]

Lesson I
Lesson from the book of Isaias
Isa 16:1-4
Send forth, O Lord, the lamb, the ruler of the earth, from Petra of the desert, to the mount of the daughter of Sion. And it shall come to pass, that as a bird fleeing away, and as young ones flying out of the nest, so shall the daughters of Moab be in the passage of Arnon. Take counsel, gather a council: make thy shadow as the night in the midday: hide them that flee, and betray not them that wander about. My fugitives shall dwell with thee: O Moab, be thou a covert to them from the face of the destroyer.

℟. Christ our King cometh. * And John hath testified of Him, that He is the Lamb that should come!
℣. The kings shall shut their mouths at Him, all nations shall serve Him.
℟. And John hath testified of Him, that He is the Lamb that should come!

Lesson II
Isa 16:4-6
For the dust is at an end, the wretch is consumed: he hath failed, that trod the earth under foot. And a throne shall be prepared in mercy, and one shall sit upon it in truth in the tabernacle of David, judging and seeking judgment and quickly rendering that which is just. We have heard of the pride of Moab, he is exceeding proud: his pride and his arrogancy, and his indignation is more than his strength.

℟. Of a long time, said Ezekiel the Prophet, I saw the gate shut behold, God went forth from it before the ages for the salvation of the world. * And it was shut again, for it is a figure of the Virgin, in that after child-birth she remained a Virgin still.
℣. The Lord alone shall enter by the gate that thou savest.
℟. And it was shut again, for it is a figure of the Virgin, in that after child-birth she remained a Virgin still.

Lesson III
Isa 16:7-8
Therefore shall Moab howl to Moab, every one shall howl: to them that rejoice upon the brick walls, tell ye their stripes. For the suburbs of Hesebon are desolate, and the lords of the nations have destroyed the vineyard of Sabama: the branches thereof have reached even to Jazer: they have wandered in the wilderness, the branches thereof are left, they are gone over the sea.

℟. Behold, the Lord cometh down with glory, and His host is with Him. * To visit His people in peace, and to establish them in life everlasting.
℣. Behold, our Lord cometh with an host.
℟. To visit His people in peace, and to establish them in life everlasting.
℣. Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, * and to the Holy Ghost.
℟. To visit His people in peace, and to establish them in life everlasting.
