Friday of the Second Week of Advent
Feria major
[Tempora/Adv2-5]

Lesson I
Lesson from the book of Isaias
Isa 24:1-3
Behold the Lord shall lay waste the earth, and shall strip it, and shall afflict the face thereof, and scatter abroad the inhabitants thereof. And it shall be as with the people, so with the priest: and as with the servant, so with his master: as with the handmaid, so with her mistress: as with the buyer, so with the seller: as with the lender, so with the borrower: as with him that calleth for his money, so with him that oweth. With desolation shall the earth be laid waste, and it shall be utterly spoiled: for the Lord hath spoken this word.

℟. Behold, there cometh the Lord, our defender, the Holy One of Israel, * Wearing a royal crown upon His head.
℣. And His dominion shall be from sea even to sea, and from the river even to the ends of the earth.
℟. Wearing a royal crown upon His head.

Lesson II
Isa 24:4-6
The earth mourned, and faded away, and is weakened: the world faded away, the height of the people of the earth is weakened. And the earth is infected by the inhabitants thereof: because they have transgressed the laws, they have changed the ordinance, they have broken the everlasting covenant. Therefore shall a curse devour the earth, and the inhabitants thereof shall sin: and therefore they that dwell therein shall be mad, and few men shall be left.

℟. As a mother comforteth her children, so will I comfort you, saith the Lord; My help also cometh unto you out of Jerusalem, the city which I have chosen. * And when ye see this, your heart shall rejoice.
℣. I will place salvation in Zion and in Jerusalem My glory.
℟. And when ye shall see this, your heart shall rejoice.

Lesson III
Isa 24:7-16
The vintage hath mourned, the vine hath languished away, all the merryhearted have sighed. The mirth of timbrels hath ceased, the noise of them that rejoice is ended, the melody of the harp is silent. They shall not drink wine with a song: the drink shall be bitter to them that drink it. The city of vanity is broken down, every house is shut up, no man cometh in. There shall be a crying for wine in the streets: all mirth is forsaken: the joy of the earth is gone away. Desolation is left in the city, and calamity shall oppress the gates. For it shall be thus in the midst of the earth, in the midst of the people, as if a few olives, that remain, should be shaken out of the olive tree: or grapes, when the vintage is ended. These shall lift up their voice, and shall give praise: when the Lord shall be glorified, they shall make a joyful noise from the sea. Therefore glorify ye the Lord in instruction: the name of the Lord God of Israel in the islands of the sea. From the ends of the earth we have heard praises, the glory of the Just one.

℟. Thou shalt yet plant vines upon thy mountains, O Jerusalem thou shalt sing for joy, for the day of the Lord cometh; arise, O Zion, and turn unto the Lord thy God; rejoice and be glad, O Jacob. * For thy Saviour cometh from the midst of the nations.
℣. Sing aloud for joy, O daughter of Zion; shout with gladness, O daughter of Jerusalem.
℟. For thy Saviour cometh from the midst of the nations.
℣. Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, * and to the Holy Ghost.
℟. For thy Saviour cometh from the midst of the nations.
