Thursday of the Second Week of Advent
Feria major
[Tempora/Adv2-4]

Lesson I
Lesson from the book of Isaias
Isa 19:1-2
The burden of Egypt. Behold the Lord will ascend upon a swift cloud, and will enter into Egypt, and the idols of Egypt shall be moved at his presence, and the heart of Egypt shall melt in the midst thereof. And I will set the Egyptians to fight against the Egyptians: and they shall fight brother against brother, and friend against friend, city against city, kingdom against kingdom.

℟. Thy salvation cometh quickly, O Jerusalem; why art thou wasted with sorrow? Is there no counselor in thee, that pangs have taken thee? * Fear not, for I will save thee and deliver thee.
℣. For I am the Lord, thy God, the Holy One of Israel, thy Saviour.
℟. Fear not, for I will save thee, and deliver thee.

Lesson II
Isa 19:3-6
And the spirit of Egypt shall be broken in the bowels thereof, and I will cast down their counsel: and they shall consult their idols, and their diviners, and their wizards, and soothsayers. And I will deliver Egypt into the hand of cruel masters, and a strong king shall rule over them, saith the Lord the God of hosts. And the water of the sea shall be dried up, and the river shall be wasted and dry. And the rivers shall fail: the streams of the banks shall be diminished, and be dried up. The reed and the bulrush shall wither away.

℟. Behold, the Lord shall come, and all His saints with Him, and it shall come to pass in that day that the light shall be great; and they shall go out from Jerusalem like clean water; and the Lord shall be King for ever, * Over all the earth.
℣. Behold, the Lord cometh with an host, and in His hand are the kingdom, and power, and dominion.
℟. Over all the earth.

Lesson III
Isa 19:11-13
The princes of Tanis are become fools, the wise counsellors of Pharao have given foolish counsel: how will you say to Pharao: I am the son of the wise, the son of ancient kings? Where are now thy wise men? let them tell thee, and shew what the Lord of hosts hath purposed upon Egypt. The princes of Tanis are become fools, the princes of Memphis are gone astray, they have deceived Egypt, the stay of the people thereof.

℟. O, thou city of Jerusalem, weep not, for the Lord hath repented Him concerning thee. * And He will take away from thee all distress.
℣. Behold, the Lord shall come with might, and His arm shall rule.
℟. And He will take away from thee all distress.
℣. Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, * and to the Holy Ghost.
℟. And He will take away from thee all distress.
