Monday of the Second Week of Advent
Feria major
[Tempora/Adv2-1]

Lesson I
Lesson from the book of Isaias
Isa 13:1-4
The burden of Babylon, which Isaias the son of Amos saw. Upon the dark mountain lift ye up a banner, exalt the voice, lift up the hand, and let the rulers go into the gates. I have commanded my sanctified ones, and have called my strong ones in my wrath, them that rejoice in my glory. The noise of a multitude in the mountains, as it were of many people, the noise of the sound of kings, of nations gathered together.

℟. Receive, O Virgin Mary, receive the word of the Lord, which is sent thee by His Angel; thou shalt conceive, and shalt bring forth God and Man together. * And thou shalt be called blessed among all women.
℣. Thou shalt bring forth a son, and remain a maiden undefiled thou shalt conceive and be a Mother, still Virgin unspotted.
℟. And thou shalt be called blessed among all women.

Lesson II
Isa 13:4-8
The Lord of hosts hath given charge to the troops of war. To them that come from a country afar off, from the end of heaven: the Lord and the instruments of his wrath, to destroy the whole land. Howl ye, for the day of the Lord is near: it shall come as a destruction from the Lord. Therefore shall all hands be faint, and every heart of man shall melt, And shall be broken. Gripings and pains shall take hold of them, they shall be in pain as a woman in labour. Every one shall be amazed at his neighbour, their countenances shall be as faces burnt.

℟. Sing, O heavens; and be joyful, O earth; and break forth into singing, O mountains, for our Lord will come; * And will have mercy on His afflicted.
℣. In His days shall righteousness flourish and abundance of peace.
℟. And will have mercy upon His afflicted.

Lesson III
Isa 13:9-11
Behold, the day of the Lord shall come, a cruel day, and full of indignation, and of wrath, and fury, to lay the land desolate, and to destroy the sinners thereof out of it. For the stars of heaven, and their brightness shall not display their light: the sun shall be darkened in his rising, and the moon shall not shine with her light. And I will visit the evils of the world, and against the wicked for their iniquity: and I will make the pride of infidels to cease, and will bring down the arrogancy of the mighty.

℟. There shall no strangers pass through Jerusalem any more * For in that day the mountains shall drop down sweet wine, and the hills shall flow with milk and honey, saith the Lord.
℣. God shall come from Lebanon, and the Holy One from the thick and shady mountain.
℟. For in that day the mountains shall drop down sweet wine, and the hills shall flow with milk and honey, saith the Lord.
℣. Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, * and to the Holy Ghost.
℟. For in that day the mountains shall drop down sweet wine, and the hills shall flow with milk and honey, saith the Lord.
