Tuesday of the Second Week of Advent
Feria major
[Tempora/Adv2-2]

Lesson I
Lesson from the book of Isaias
Isa 14:1-2
Her time is near at hand, and her days shall not be prolonged. For the Lord will have mercy on Jacob, and will yet choose out of Israel, and will make them rest upon their own ground: and the stranger shall be joined with them, and shall adhere to the house of Jacob. And the people shall take them, and bring them into their place: and the house of Israel shall possess them in the land of the Lord for servants and handmaids: and they shall make them captives that had taken them, and shall subdue their oppressors.

℟. O ye mountains of Israel, shoot forth your branches and blossom and bring forth fruit. * The day of the Lord is at hand to come.
℣. Drop down, ye heavens, from above, and let the skies pour down the Righteous One; let the earth open, and let her bring forth the Saviour.
℟. The day of the Lord is at hand to come.

Lesson II
Isa 14:3-6
And it shall come to pass in that day, that when God shall give thee rest from thy labour, and from thy vexation, and from the hard bondage, wherewith thou didst serve before, Thou shalt take up this parable against the king of Babylon, and shalt say: How is the oppressor come to nothing, the tribute hath ceased? The Lord hath broken the staff of the wicked, the rod of the rulers, That struck the people in wrath with an incurable wound, that brought nations under in fury, that persecuted in a cruel manner.

℟. Let the mountains break forth into singing, and the hills bring forth righteousness * For the Lord, the Light of the world, cometh with power.
℣. Out of Zion shall go forth the law, and the word of the Lord from Jerusalem.
℟. For the Lord, the Light of the world, cometh with power.

Lesson III
Isa 14:12-15
How art thou fallen from heaven, O Lucifer, who didst rise in the morning? how art thou fallen to the earth, that didst wound the nations? And thou saidst in thy heart: I will ascend into heaven, I will exalt my throne above the stars of God, I will sit in the mountain of the covenant, in the sides of the north. I will ascend above the height of the clouds, I will be like the most High. But yet thou shalt be brought down to hell, into the depth of the pit.

℟. Behold, I, the Lord your God, come from the South * To visit you in peace.
℣. I will look again upon you and make you to increase ye shall be multiplied, and I will establish My covenant with you.
℟. To visit you in peace.
℣. Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, * and to the Holy Ghost.
℟. To visit you in peace.
