Monday of the Third Week of Advent
Feria major
[Tempora/Adv3-1]

Lesson I
Lesson from the book of Isaias
Isa 28:1-3
Woe to the crown of pride, to the drunkards of Ephraim, and to the fading flower the glory of his joy, who were on the head of the fat valley, staggering with wine. Behold the Lord is mighty and strong, as a storm of hail: a destroying whirlwind, as the violence of many waters overflowing, and sent forth upon a spacious land. The crown of pride of the drunkards of Ephraim shall be trodden under feet.

℟. Behold, the Lord shall appear upon a white cloud, * And ten thousand of His saints with Him; and He shall have on His vesture, and on His thigh a name written King of kings, and Lord of lords.
℣. He shall appear and not lie; though He tarry, wait for Him, because He will surely come.
℟. And ten thousand of His saints with Him; and He shall have on His vesture, and on His thigh a name written King of kings, and Lord of lords.

Lesson II
Isa 28:4-7
And the fading flower the glory of his joy, who is on the head of the fat valley, shall be as a hasty fruit before the ripeness of autumn: which when he that seeth it shall behold, as soon as he taketh it in his hand, he will eat it up. In that day the Lord of hosts shall be a crown of glory, and a garland of joy to the residue of his people: And a spirit of judgment to him that sitteth in judgment, and strength to them that return out of the battle to the gate. But these also have been ignorant through wine, and through drunkenness have erred: the priest and the prophet have been ignorant through drunkenness, they are swallowed up with wine, they have gone astray in drunkenness, they have not known him that seeth, they have been ignorant of judgment.

℟. Thou, Bethlehem, art the city of the Most High God, out of thee shall He come forth That is to be Ruler in Israel; Whose goings forth have been from of old, from everlasting, and now shall He be great unto the ends of the earth. * And this Man shall be the peace in our land, when He shall come.
℣. He shall speak peace unto the Gentiles, and shall have dominion from sea to sea.
℟. And this Man shall be the peace in our land, when He shall come.

Lesson III
Isa 28:16-18
Therefore thus saith the Lord God: Behold I will lay a stone in the foundations of Sion, a tried stone, a corner stone, a precious stone, founded in the foundation. He that believeth, let him not hasten. And I will set judgment in weight, and justice in measure: and hail shall overturn the hope of falsehood: and waters shall overflow its protection. And your league with death shall be abolished, and your covenant with hell shall not stand: when the overflowing scourge shall pass, you shall be trodden down by it.

℟. He That shall come, will come, and will not tarry; and there shall no more be fear in our borders. * For He is our Saviour.
℣. He shall tread down all our iniquities, and cast all our sins into the depths of the sea.
℟. For He is our Saviour.
℣. Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, * and to the Holy Ghost.
℟. For He is our Saviour.
