Tuesday of the Third Week of Advent
Feria major
[Tempora/Adv3-2]

Lesson I
Lesson from the book of Isaias
Isa 30:18-20
The Lord waiteth that he may have mercy on you: and therefore shall he be exalted sparing you: because the Lord is the God of judgment: blessed are all they that wait for him. For the people of Sion shall dwell in Jerusalem: weeping thou shalt not weep, he will surely have pity on thee: at the voice of thy cry, as soon as he shall hear, he will answer thee. And the Lord will give you spare bread, and short water: and will not cause thy teacher to flee away from thee any more, and thy eyes shall see thy teacher.

℟. Weep not, O Egypt, for the Ruler cometh unto thee, and the depths shall be moved at His presence. * To deliver His people out of the hand of the mighty.
℣. Behold, the Lord of hosts, thy God, cometh with great power.
℟. To deliver His people out of the hand of the mighty.

Lesson II
Isa 30:22-25
And thou shalt defile the plates of thy graven things of silver, and the garment of thy molten things of gold, and shalt cast them away as the uncleanness of a menstruous woman. Thou shalt say to it: Get thee hence. And rain shall be given to thy seed, wheresoever thou shalt sow in the land: and the bread of the corn of the land shall be most plentiful, and fat. The lamb in that day shall feed at large in thy possession: And thy oxen, and the ass colts that till the ground, shall eat mingled provender as it was winnowed in the floor. And there shall be upon every high mountain, and upon every elevated hill rivers of running waters in the day of the slaughter of many, when the tower shall fall.

℟. Her time is near to come, and her days shall not be prolonged. * Lord shall have mercy on Jacob, and Israel shall be saved.
℣. Turn again, O Virgin of Israel, turn again to thy cities.
℟. For the Lord shall have mercy on Judah, and Israel shall be saved.

Lesson III
Isa 30:26-28
And the light of the moon shall be as the light of the sun, and the light of the sun shall be sevenfold, as the light of seven days: in the day when the Lord shall bind up the wound of his people, and shall heal the stroke of their wound. Behold the name of the Lord cometh from afar, his wrath burneth, and is heavy to bear: his lips are filled with indignation, and his tongue as a devouring fire. His breath as a torrent overflowing even to the midst of the neck, to destroy the nations unto nothing, and the bridle of error that was in the jaws of the people.

℟. The Lord shall come down like rain upon a fleece. * In His days shall righteousness flourish, and abundance of peace.
℣. All the kings of the earth shall fall down before Him, all nations shall serve Him.
℟. In His days shall righteousness flourish, and abundance of peace.
℣. Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, * and to the Holy Ghost.
℟. In His days shall righteousness flourish, and abundance of peace.
