Monday of the Fourth Week of Advent
Feria major
[Tempora/Adv4-1]

Lesson I
Lesson from the book of Isaias
Isa 41:8-10
But thou Israel, art my servant, Jacob whom I have chosen, the seed of Abraham my friend: In whom I have taken thee from the ends of the earth, and from the remote parts thereof have called thee, and said to thee: Thou art my servant, I have chosen thee, and have not cast thee away. Fear not, for I am with thee: turn not aside, for I am thy God: I have strengthened thee, and have helped thee, and the right hand of my just one hath upheld thee.

℟. Blow ye the trumpet in Zion, call together the nations, tell it out among the people, and say: * Behold, God our Saviour cometh.
℣. Tell it out and make it to be heard; speak aloud and cry.
℟. Behold, God our Saviour cometh.

Lesson II
Isa 41:11-13
Behold all that fight against thee shall be confounded and ashamed, they shall be as nothing, and the men shall perish that strive against thee. Thou shalt seek them, and shalt not find the men that resist thee: they shall be as nothing: and as a thing consumed the men that war against thee. For I am the Lord thy God, who take thee by the hand, and say to thee: Fear not, I have helped thee.

℟. The sceptre shall not depart from Judah, nor the law-giver from his loins, until he that shall be sent cometh. * And unto him shall the longing of the Gentiles be.
℣. His eyes shall be bright with wine, and his teeth white with milk.
℟. And unto him shall the desire of the Gentiles be.

Lesson III
Isa 41:14-16
Fear not, thou worm of Jacob, you that are dead of Israel: I have helped thee, saith the Lord: and thy Redeemer the Holy One of Israel. I have made thee as a new thrashing wain, with teeth like a saw: thou shall thrash the mountains, and break them in pieces: and shalt make the hills as chaff. Thou shalt fan them, and the wind shall carry them away, and the whirlwind shall scatter them: and thou shalt rejoice in the Lord, in the Holy One of Israel thou shalt be joyful.

℟. I must decrease, but He must increase; He it is Who, coming after me is preferred before me; * Whose shoe's latchet I am not worthy to unloose.
℣. I baptize you with water; but He shall baptize you with the Holy Ghost.
℟. Whose shoe's latchet I am not worthy to unloose.
℣. Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, * and to the Holy Ghost.
℟. Whose shoe's latchet I am not worthy to unloose.
