Thursday of the Fourth Week of Advent
Feria major
[Tempora/Adv4-4]

Lesson I
Lesson from the book of Isaias
Isa 64:1-4
That thou wouldst rend the heavens, and wouldst come down: the mountains would melt away at thy presence. They would melt as at the burning of fire, the waters would burn with fire, that thy name might be made known to thy enemies: that the nations might tremble at thy presence. When thou shalt do wonderful things, we shall not bear them: thou didst come down, and at thy presence the mountains melted away. From the beginning of the world they have not heard, nor perceived with the ears: the eye hath not seen, O God, besides thee, what things thou hast prepared for them that wait for thee.

℟. Blow ye the trumpet in Zion, call together the nations, tell it out among the people, and say: * Behold, God our Saviour cometh.
℣. Tell it out and make it to be heard; speak aloud and cry.
℟. Behold, God our Saviour cometh.

Lesson II
Isa 64:5-7
Thou hast met him that rejoiceth, and doth justice: in thy ways they shall remember thee: behold thou art angry, and we have sinned: in them we have been always, and we shall be saved. And we are all become as one unclean, and all our justices as the rag of a menstruous woman: and we have all fallen as a leaf, and our iniquities, like the wind, have taken us away. There is none that calleth upon thy name: that riseth up, and taketh hold of thee: thou hast hid thy face from us, and hast crushed us in the hand of our iniquity.

℟. The sceptre shall not depart from Judah, nor the law-giver from his loins, until he that shall be sent cometh. * And unto him shall the longing of the Gentiles be.
℣. His eyes shall be bright with wine, and his teeth white with milk.
℟. And unto him shall the desire of the Gentiles be.

Lesson III
Isa 64:8-11
And now, O Lord, thou art our father, and we are clay: and thou art our maker, and we all are the works of thy hands. Be not very angry, O Lord, and remember no longer our iniquity: behold, see we are all thy people. The city of thy sanctuary is become a desert, Sion is made a desert, Jerusalem is desolate. The house of our holiness, and of our glory, where our fathers praised thee, is burnt with fire, and all our lovely things are turned into ruins.

℟. I must decrease, but He must increase; He it is Who, coming after me is preferred before me; * Whose shoe's latchet I am not worthy to unloose.
℣. I baptize you with water; but He shall baptize you with the Holy Ghost.
℟. Whose shoe's latchet I am not worthy to unloose.
℣. Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, * and to the Holy Ghost.
℟. Whose shoe's latchet I am not worthy to unloose.
