Friday of the Fourth Week of Advent
Feria major
[Tempora/Adv4-5]

Lesson I
Lesson from the book of Isaias
Isa 66:5-8
Hear the word of the Lord, you that tremble at his word: Your brethren that hate you, and cast you out for my name's sake, have said: Let the Lord be glorified, and we shall see in your joy: but they shall be confounded. A voice of the people from the city, a voice from the temple, the voice of the Lord that rendereth recompense to his enemies. Before she was in labour, she brought forth; before her time came to be delivered, she brought forth a man child. Who hath ever heard such a thing? and who hath seen the like to this? shall the earth bring forth in one day? or shall a nation be brought forth at once, because Sion hath been in labour, and hath brought forth her children?

℟. Unto us shall a Child be born, and His name shall be called the Mighty God. * He shall sit upon the throne of His father David, and shall reign, and the government shall be upon His shoulder.
℣. In Him shall all the kindreds of the earth be blessed; all nations shall serve Him.
℟. He shall sit upon the throne of His father David, and shall reign, and the government shall be upon His shoulder.

Lesson II
Isa 66:9-12
Shall not I that make others to bring forth children, myself bring forth, saith the Lord? shall I, that give generation to others, be barren, saith the Lord thy God? Rejoice with Jerusalem, and be glad with her, all you that love her: rejoice for joy with her, all you that mourn for her. That you may suck, and be filled with the breasts of her consolations: that you may milk out, and flow with delights, from the abundance of her glory. For thus saith the Lord: Behold I will bring upon her as it were a river of peace, and as an overflowing torrent the glory of the Gentiles, which you shall suck; you shall be carried at the breasts, end upon the knees they shall caress you.

℟. Behold, the fullness of the time is come, wherein God hath sent forth His Son into the world, born of a Virgin, made under the law; * To redeem them that were under the law.
℣. God, for His great love wherewith He loved us, hath sent His own Son in the likeness of sinful flesh.
℟. To redeem them that were under the law.

Lesson III
Isa 66:13-16
As one whom the mother caresseth, so will I comfort you, and you shall be comforted in Jerusalem. You shall see and your heart shall rejoice, and your bones shall flourish like an herb, and the hand of the Lord shall be known to his servants, and he shall be angry with his enemies. For behold the Lord will come with fire, and his chariots are like a whirlwind, to render his wrath in indignation, and his rebuke with flames of fire. For the Lord shall judge by fire, and by his sword unto all flesh, and the slain of the Lord shall be many. They that were sanctified, and thought themselves clean in the gardens behind the gate within, they that did eat swine's flesh, and the abomination, and the mouse: they shall be consumed together, saith the Lord. But I know their works, and their thoughts: I come that I may gather them together with all nations and tongues: and they shall come and shall see my glory.

℟. O virgin of Israel, turn again to thy cities. * How long wilt thou go about sorrowing? Thou shalt bring forth the Lord thy Saviour, a new offering in the earth; men shall walk in paths of salvation.
℣. I have loved thee with an everlasting love; therefore with loving-kindness have I drawn thee.
℟. How long wilt thou go about sorrowing? Thou shalt bring forth the Lord thy Saviour, a new offering in the earth.
℣. Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, * and to the Holy Ghost.
℟. Men shall walk in paths of salvation.
