Wednesday of the Fourth Week of Advent
Feria major
[Tempora/Adv4-3]

Lesson I
Lesson from the book of Isaias
Isa 51:1-3
Give ear to me, you that follow that which is just, and you that seek the Lord: look unto the rock whence you are hewn, and to the hole of the pit from which you are dug out. Look unto Abraham your father, and to Sara that bore you: for I called him alone, and blessed him, and multiplied him. The Lord therefore will comfort Sion, and will comfort all the ruins thereof: and he will make her desert as a place of pleasure, and her wilderness as the garden of the Lord. Joy and gladness shall be found therein, thanksgiving, and the voice of praise.

℟. I have sworn, saith the Lord, that I will not be wroth any more with the earth; for the mountains and the hills shall receive My righteousness. * And the covenant of My peace shall be in Jerusalem.
℣. My salvation is near to come, and My righteousness to be revealed.
℟. And the covenant of My peace shall be in Jerusalem.

Lesson II
Isa 51:4-6
Hearken unto me, O my people, and give ear to me, O my tribes: for a law shall go forth from me, and my judgment shall rest to be a light of the nations. My just one is near at hand, my saviour is gone forth, and my arms shall judge the people: the islands shall look for me, and shall patiently wait for my arm. Lift up your eyes to heaven, and look down to the earth beneath: for the heavens shall vanish like smoke, and the earth shall be worn away like a garment, and the inhabitants thereof shall perish in like manner: but my salvation shall be for ever, and my justice shall not fail.

℟. We will not go back from thee. Thou, O Lord, shalt quicken us, and we will call upon thy name. * Cause thy face to shine upon us, and we shall be saved.
℣. Remember us, O Lord, with the favour that Thou showest unto thy people; O visit us with thy salvation.
℟. Cause thy face to shine upon us, and we shall be saved.

Lesson III
Isa 51:7-8
Hearken to me, you that know what is just, my people who have my law in your heart: fear ye not the reproach of men, and be not afraid of their blasphemies. For the worm shall eat them up as a garment: and the moth shall consume them as wool: but my salvation shall be for ever, and my justice from generation to generation,

℟. Consider how great this man is, who is entered in for the salvation of the nations; he is King of Righteousness; * Without descent, nor end of life.
℣. The Fore-runner is for us entered, made an High Priest for ever after the order of Melchisedek.
℟. Without descent, nor end of life.
℣. Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, * and to the Holy Ghost.
℟. Without descent, nor end of life.
