Thursday of the First Week after Epiphany
Feria
[Tempora/Epi1-4]

Lesson I
Lesson from the first letter of St. Paul the Apostle to the Corinthians
1 Cor 7:1-4
Now concerning the thing whereof you wrote to me: It is good for a man not to touch a woman. But for fear of fornication, let every man have his own wife, and let every woman have her own husband. Let the husband render the debt to his wife, and the wife also in like manner to the husband. The wife hath not power of her own body, but the husband. And in like manner the husband also hath not power of his own body, but the wife.

℟. In thee, O God, do I put my trust; let me never be put to confusion, O Lord deliver me in thy righteousness, * And cause me to escape.
℣. Incline thine ear unto me, deliver me speedily.
℟. And cause me to escape.

Lesson II
1 Cor 7:5-9
Defraud not one another, except, perhaps, by consent, for a time, that you may give yourselves to prayer; and return together again, lest Satan tempt you for your incontinency. But I speak this by indulgence, not by commandment. For I would that all men were even as myself: but every one hath his proper gift from God; one after this manner, and another after that. But I say to the unmarried, and to the widows: It is good for them if they so continue, even as I. But if they do not contain themselves, let them marry. For it is better to marry than to be burnt.

℟. Let my mouth be filled with thy praise, that I may sing of thy glory, all the day long of thy greatness. Cast me not off in the time of old age; * Forsake me not when my strength faileth.
℣. My lips shall be fain when I sing unto thee.
℟. Forsake me not when my strength faileth.

Lesson III
1 Cor 7:10-14
But to them that are married, not I but the Lord commandeth, that the wife depart not from her husband. And if she depart, that she remain unmarried, or be reconciled to her husband. And let not the husband put away his wife. For to the rest I speak, not the Lord. If any brother hath a wife that believeth not, and she consent to dwell with him, let him not put her away. And if any woman hath a husband that believeth not, and he consent to dwell with her, let her not put away her husband. For the unbelieving husband is sanctified by the believing wife; and the unbelieving wife is sanctified by the believing husband: otherwise your children should be unclean; but now they are holy.

℟. My lips shall be fain when I sing unto thee; * And my soul, which Thou, O Lord, hast redeemed.
℣. My tongue shall also talk of thy righteousness, all the day long of thy praise.
℟. And my soul, which Thou, O Lord, hast redeemed.
℣. Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, * and to the Holy Ghost.
℟. And my soul, which Thou, O Lord, hast redeemed.
