Sunday within the Octave of the Epiphany
Semiduplex II classis
[Tempora/Epi1-0a]

Lesson I
Lesson from the first letter of St. Paul the Apostle to the Corinthians
1 Cor 1:1-3
Paul, called to be an apostle of Jesus Christ by the will of God, and Sosthenes a brother, To the church of God that is at Corinth, to them that are sanctified in Christ Jesus, called to be saints, with all that invoke the name of our Lord Jesus Christ, in every place of theirs and ours. Grace to you, and peace from God our Father, and from the Lord Jesus Christ.

℟. There are three precious gifts which the wise men offered unto the Lord on this day, and they speak a mystery of the things of God: * Gold, to show His kingly power; frankincense, for our Great High Priest; and myrrh, against the Lord's burying.
℣. The wise men worshipped the Captain of our Salvation, as He lay in the manger, and when they had opened their treasures, they presented unto Him mystic gifts.
℟. Gold, to show His kingly power; frankincense, for our Great High Priest; and myrrh, against the Lord's burying.

Lesson II
1 Cor 1:4-9
I give thanks to my God always for you, for the grace of God that is given you in Christ Jesus, That in all things you are made rich in him, in all utterance, and in all knowledge; As the testimony of Christ was confirmed in you, So that nothing is wanting to you in any grace, waiting for the manifestation of our Lord Jesus Christ. Who also will confirm you unto the end without crime, in the day of the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ. God is faithful: by whom you are called unto the fellowship of his Son Jesus Christ our Lord.

℟. The Holy Ghost appeared in a bodily shape like a dove, and the voice of the Father was heard: * This is My beloved Son, in Whom I am well pleased.
℣. The heavens were opened unto him, and, lo, the voice of the Father was heard, like unto thunder, saying:
℟. This is My beloved Son, in Whom I am well pleased.

Lesson III
1 Cor 1:10-13
Now I beseech you, brethren, by the name of our Lord Jesus Christ, that you all speak the same thing, and that there be no schisms among you; but that you be perfect in the same mind, and in the same judgment. For it hath been signified unto me, my brethren, of you, by them that are of the house of Chloe, that there are contentions among you. Now this I say, that every one of you saith: I indeed am of Paul; and I am of Apollo; and I am of Cephas; and I of Christ. Is Christ divided? Was Paul then crucified for you? or were you baptized in the name of Paul?

℟. The kings of Tarshish and of the isles shall bring presents. * The kings of Arabia and Saba shall offer gifts unto the Lord God.
℣. All they from Saba shall come, they shall bring gold and incense.
℟. The kings of Arabia and Saba shall offer gifts unto the Lord God.
℣. Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, * and to the Holy Ghost.
℟. The kings of Arabia and Saba shall offer gifts unto the Lord God.
