Saturday of the First Week after Epiphany
Feria
[Tempora/Epi1-6]

Lesson I
Lesson from the first letter of St. Paul the Apostle to the Corinthians
1 Cor 16:1-4
Now concerning the collections that are made for the saints, as I have given order to the churches of Galatia, so do ye also. On the first day of the week let every one of you put apart with himself, laying up what it shall well please him; that when I come, the collections be not then to be made. And when I shall be with you, whomsoever you shall approve by letters, them will I send to carry your grace to Jerusalem. And if it be meet that I also go, they shall go with me.

℟. Cut me not off in the midst of my sins. * Nor keep thy wrath against me for my latter end.
℣. Enter not into judgment with thy servant, O Lord.
℟. Nor keep thy wrath against me for my latter end.

Lesson II
1 Cor 16:5-9
Now I will come to you, when I shall have passed through Macedonia. For I shall pass through Macedonia. And with you perhaps I shall abide, or even spend the winter: that you may bring me on my way whithersoever I shall go. For I will not see you now by the way, for I trust that I shall abide with you some time, if the Lord permit. But I will tarry at Ephesus until Pentecost. For a great door and evident is opened unto me: and many adversaries.

℟. My heart is ready, O God, my heart is ready. * I will sing and give praise to the Lord.
℣. Awake up, my glory, awake, psaltery and harp! I will awake early.
℟. I will sing and give praise to the Lord.

Lesson III
1 Cor 16:10-14
Now if Timothy come, see that he be with you without fear, for he worketh the work of the Lord, as I also do. Let no man therefore despise him, but conduct ye him on his way in peace: that he may come to me. For I look for him with the brethren. And touching our brother Apollo, I give you to understand, that I much entreated him to come unto you with the brethren: and indeed it was not his will at all to come at this time. But he will come when he shall have leisure. Watch ye, stand fast in the faith, do manfully, and be strengthened. Let all your things be done in charity.

℟. Unto thee, O my Strength, will I sing, for God is my defence, * The God of my mercy.
℣. I will be glad and rejoice in thee, I will sing praise to thy Name, O Thou Most High.
℟. The God of my mercy.
℣. Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, * and to the Holy Ghost.
℟. The God of my mercy.
