Monday of the Second Week after Epiphany
Feria
[Tempora/Epi2-1]

Lesson I
Lesson from the second letter of St. Paul the Apostle to the Corinthians
2 Cor 3:1-3
Do we begin again to commend ourselves? Or do we need (as some do) epistles of commendation to you, or from you? You are our epistle, written in our hearts, which is known and read by all men: Being manifested, that you are the epistle of Christ, ministered by us, and written not with ink, but with the Spirit of the living God; not in tables of stone, but in the fleshly tables of the heart.

℟. O how great is thy goodness, O Lord * Which Thou hast laid up for them that fear thee!
℣. Which Thou, O Lord, hast wrought for them that trust in thee before the sons of men!
℟. Which Thou hast laid up for them that fear thee!

Lesson II
2 Cor 3:4-8
And such confidence we have, through Christ, towards God. Not that we are sufficient to think any thing of ourselves, as of ourselves: but our sufficiency is from God. Who also hath made us fit ministers of the new testament, not in the letter, but in the spirit. For the letter killeth, but the spirit quickeneth. Now if the ministration of death, engraven with letters upon stones, was glorious; so that the children of Israel could not steadfastly behold the face of Moses, for the glory of his countenance, which is made void: How shall not the ministration of the spirit be rather in glory?

℟. O God, be Thou my helper. * Neither leave me.
℣. Nor forsake me O God of my salvation.
℟. Neither leave me.

Lesson III
2 Cor 3:9-14
For if the ministration of condemnation be glory, much more the ministration of justice aboundeth in glory. For even that which was glorious in this part was not glorified, by reason of the glory that excelleth. For if that which is done away was glorious, much more that which remaineth is in glory. Having therefore such hope, we use much confidence: And not as Moses put a veil upon his face, that the children of Israel might not steadfastly look on the face of that which is made void. But their senses were made dull. For, until this present day, the selfsame veil, in the reading of the old testament, remaineth not taken away (because in Christ it is made void).

℟. I will bless the Lord at all times. * His praise shall continually be in my mouth.
℣. My soul shall make her boast in the Lord; the humble shall hear thereof and be glad.
℟. His praise shall continually be in my mouth.
℣. Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, * and to the Holy Ghost.
℟. His praise shall continually be in my mouth.
