Wednesday of the Third Week after Epiphany
Feria
[Tempora/Epi3-3]

Lessons I–III: from the Scripture of the day.

Lesson I
Lesson from the letter of St. Paul the Apostle to the Ephesians
Eph 1:1-4
Paul, an apostle of Jesus Christ, by the will of God, to all the saints who are at Ephesus, and to the faithful in Christ Jesus. Grace be to you, and peace from God the Father, and from the Lord Jesus Christ. Blessed by the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, who hath blessed us with spiritual blessings in heavenly places, in Christ: As he chose us in him before the foundation of the world, that we should be holy and unspotted in his sight in charity.

℟. Cut me not off in the midst of my sins. * Nor keep thy wrath against me for my latter end.
℣. Enter not into judgment with thy servant, O Lord.
℟. Nor keep thy wrath against me for my latter end.

Lesson II
Eph 1:5-10
Who hath predestinated us unto the adoption of children through Jesus Christ unto himself: according to the purpose of his will: Unto the praise of the glory of his grace, in which he hath graced us in his beloved son. In whom we have redemption through his blood, the remission of sins, according to the riches of his grace, Which hath superabounded in us in all wisdom and prudence, That he might make known unto us the mystery of his will, according to his good pleasure, which he hath purposed in him, In the dispensation of the fulness of times, to re-establish all things in Christ, that are in heaven and on earth, in him.

℟. My heart is ready, O God, my heart is ready. * I will sing and give praise to the Lord.
℣. Awake up, my glory, awake, psaltery and harp! I will awake early.
℟. I will sing and give praise to the Lord.

Lesson III
Eph 1:11-14
In whom we also are called by lot, being predestinated according to the purpose of him who worketh all things according to the counsel of his will. That we may be unto the praise of his glory, we who before hoped Christ: In whom you also, after you had heard the word of truth, (the gospel of your salvation;) in whom also believing, you were signed with the holy Spirit of promise, Who is the pledge of our inheritance, unto the redemption of acquisition, unto the praise of his glory.

℟. Unto thee, O my Strength, will I sing, for God is my defence, * The God of my mercy.
℣. I will be glad and rejoice in thee, I will sing praise to thy Name, O Thou Most High.
℟. The God of my mercy.
℣. Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, * and to the Holy Ghost.
℟. The God of my mercy.
