Monday of the Third Week after Epiphany
Feria
[Tempora/Epi3-1]

Lessons I–III: from the Commune Evangelistarum (C1a).

Lesson I
Lesson from the letter of St. Paul the Apostle to the Galatians
Gal 3:1-6
O senseless Galatians, who hath bewitched you that you should not obey the truth, before whose eyes Jesus Christ hath been set forth, crucified among you? This only would I learn of you: Did you receive the Spirit by the works of the law, or by the hearing of faith? Are you so foolish, that, whereas you began in the Spirit, you would now be made perfect by the flesh? Have you suffered so great things in vain? If it be yet in vain. He therefore who giveth to you the Spirit, and worketh miracles among you; doth he do it by the works of the law, or by the hearing of the faith? As it is written: Abraham believed God, and it was reputed to him unto justice.

℟. O how great is thy goodness, O Lord * Which Thou hast laid up for them that fear thee!
℣. Which Thou, O Lord, hast wrought for them that trust in thee before the sons of men!
℟. Which Thou hast laid up for them that fear thee!

Lesson II
Gal 3:7-10
Know ye therefore, that they who are of faith, the same are the children of Abraham. And the scripture, foreseeing, that God justifieth the Gentiles by faith, told unto Abraham before: In thee shall all nations be blessed. Therefore they that are of faith, shall be blessed with faithful Abraham. For as many as are of the works of the law, are under a curse. For it is written: Cursed is every one, that abideth not in all things, which are written in the book of the law to do them.

℟. O God, be Thou my helper. * Neither leave me.
℣. Nor forsake me O God of my salvation.
℟. Neither leave me.

Lesson III
Gal 3:11-14
But that in the law no man is justified with God, it is manifest: because the just man liveth by faith. But the law is not of faith: but, He that doth those things, shall live in them. Christ hath redeemed us from the curse of the law, being made a curse for us: for it is written: Cursed is every one that hangeth on a tree: That the blessing of Abraham might come on the Gentiles through Christ Jesus: that we may receive the promise of the Spirit by faith.

℟. I will bless the Lord at all times. * His praise shall continually be in my mouth.
℣. My soul shall make her boast in the Lord; the humble shall hear thereof and be glad.
℟. His praise shall continually be in my mouth.
℣. Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, * and to the Holy Ghost.
℟. His praise shall continually be in my mouth.
