Tuesday of the Third Week after Epiphany
Feria
[Tempora/Epi3-2]

Lessons I–III: from the Scripture of the day.

Lesson I
Lesson from the letter of St. Paul the Apostle to the Galatians
Gal 5:1-5
Stand fast, and be not held again under the yoke of bondage. Behold, I Paul tell you, that if you be circumcised, Christ shall profit you nothing. And I testify again to every man circumcising himself, that he is a debtor to the whole law. You are made void of Christ, you who are justified in the law: you are fallen from grace. For we in spirit, by faith, wait for the hope of justice.

℟. O God, give ear unto my tears; hold not thy peace, but, O, spare me! * For I am a stranger with thee, and a sojourner.
℣. Be pleased, O Lord, to deliver me; O Lord, look upon me to help me.
℟. For I am a stranger with thee, and a sojourner.

Lesson II
Gal 5:6-10
For in Christ Jesus neither circumcision availeth any thing, nor uncircumcision: but faith that worketh by charity. You did run well, who hath hindered you, that you should not obey the truth? This persuasion is not from him that calleth you. A little leaven corrupteth the whole lump. I have confidence in you in the Lord: that you will not be of another mind: but he that troubleth you, shall bear the judgment, whosoever he be.

℟. The Lord hath set my feet upon a rock, and ordered my goings. * And He hath put a new song in my mouth.
℣. He heard my cry He brought me up also out of an horrible pit.
℟. And He hath put a new song in my mouth.

Lesson III
Gal 5:11-17
And I, brethren, if I yet preach circumcision, why do I yet suffer persecution? Then is the scandal of the cross made void. I would they were even cut off, who trouble you. For you, brethren, have been called unto liberty: only make not liberty an occasion to the flesh, but by charity of the spirit serve one another. For all the law is fulfilled in one word: Thou shalt love thy neighbour as thyself. But if you bite and devour one another; take heed you be not consumed one of another. I say then, walk in the spirit, and you shall not fulfil the lusts of the flesh. For the flesh lusteth against the spirit: and the spirit against the flesh; for these are contrary one to another: so that you do not the things that you would.

℟. I said: Lord, be merciful unto me. * Heal my soul, for I have sinned against thee.
℣. Deliver me from all mine iniquities, O Lord.
℟. Heal my soul, for I have sinned against thee.
℣. Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, * and to the Holy Ghost.
℟. Heal my soul, for I have sinned against thee.
