Thursday of the Third Week after Epiphany
Feria
[Tempora/Epi3-4]

Lessons I–III: from the Scripture of the day.

Lesson I
Lesson from the letter of St. Paul the Apostle to the Ephesians
Eph 4:1-6
I therefore, a prisoner in the Lord, beseech you that you walk worthy of the vocation in which you are called, With all humility and mildness, with patience, supporting one another in charity. Careful to keep the unity of the Spirit in the bond of peace. One body and one Spirit; as you are called in one hope of your calling. One Lord, one faith, one baptism. One God and Father of all, who is above all, and through all, and in us all.

℟. In thee, O God, do I put my trust; let me never be put to confusion, O Lord deliver me in thy righteousness, * And cause me to escape.
℣. Incline thine ear unto me, deliver me speedily.
℟. And cause me to escape.

Lesson II
Eph 4:7-10
But to every one of us is given grace, according to the measure of the giving of Christ. Wherefore he saith: Ascending on high, he led captivity captive; he gave gifts to men. Now that he ascended, what is it, but because he also descended first into the lower parts of the earth? He that descended is the same also that ascended above all the heavens, that he might fill all things.

℟. Let my mouth be filled with thy praise, that I may sing of thy glory, all the day long of thy greatness. Cast me not off in the time of old age; * Forsake me not when my strength faileth.
℣. My lips shall be fain when I sing unto thee.
℟. Forsake me not when my strength faileth.

Lesson III
Eph 4:11-15
And he gave some apostles, and some prophets, and other some evangelists, and other some pastors and doctors, For the perfecting of the saints, for the work of the ministry, for the edifying of the body of Christ: Until we all meet into the unity of faith, and of the knowledge of the Son of God, unto a perfect man, unto the measure of the age of the fulness of Christ; That henceforth we be no more children tossed to and fro, and carried about with every wind of doctrine by the wickedness of men, by cunning craftiness, by which they lie in wait to deceive But doing the truth in charity, we may in all things grow up in him who is the head, even Christ:

℟. My lips shall be fain when I sing unto thee; * And my soul, which Thou, O Lord, hast redeemed.
℣. My tongue shall also talk of thy righteousness, all the day long of thy praise.
℟. And my soul, which Thou, O Lord, hast redeemed.
℣. Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, * and to the Holy Ghost.
℟. And my soul, which Thou, O Lord, hast redeemed.
