Saturday of the Third Week after Epiphany
Feria
[Tempora/Epi3-6]

Lesson I
Lesson from the letter of St. Paul the Apostle to the Ephesians
Eph 6:1-4
Children, obey your parents in the Lord, for this is just. Honour thy father and thy mother, which is the first commandment with a promise: That it may be well with thee, and thou mayest be long lived upon earth. And you, fathers, provoke not your children to anger; but bring them up in the discipline and correction of the Lord.

℟. Mercy and judgment I will sing to thee, O Lord: * I will sing, and I will understand in the unspotted way, when thou shalt come to me.
℣. I walked in the innocence of my heart, in the midst of my house.
℟. Mercy and judgment I will sing to thee, O Lord

Lesson II
Eph 6:5-9
Servants, be obedient to them that are your lords according to the flesh, with fear and trembling, in the simplicity of your heart, as to Christ: Not serving to the eye, as it were pleasing men, but, as the servants of Christ doing the will of God from the heart, With a good will serving, as to the Lord, and not to men. Knowing that whatsoever good thing any man shall do, the same shall he receive from the Lord, whether he be bond, or free. And you, masters, do the same things to them, forbearing threatenings, knowing that the Lord both of them and you is in heaven; and there is no respect of persons with him.

℟. Hear my prayer, O Lord, and let my crying come unto thee. * For thou wilt not despise, O God, the prayer of the destitute
℣. O let thine ears consider well the voice of my complaint
℟. For thou wilt not despise, O God, the prayer of the destitute.

Lesson III
Eph 6:10-13
Finally, brethren, be strengthened in the Lord, and in the might of his power. Put you on the armour of God, that you may be able to stand against the deceits of the devil. For our wrestling is not against flesh and blood; but against principalities and power, against the rulers of the world of this darkness, against the spirits of wickedness in the high places. Therefore take unto you the armour of God, that you may be able to resist in the evil day, and to stand in all things perfect.

℟. Haste thee to hear me, O Lord. * But thou art the same, and thy years shall not fail.
℣. My days have declined like a shadow, and I am withered like grass.
℟. For my days are consumed away like smoke.
℣. Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, * and to the Holy Ghost.
℟. But thou art the same, and thy years shall not fail.
