Friday of the Third Week after Epiphany
Feria
[Tempora/Epi3-5]

Lesson I
Lesson from the letter of St. Paul the Apostle to the Ephesians
Eph 5:1-4
Be ye therefore followers of God, as most dear children; And walk in love, as Christ also hath loved us, and hath delivered himself for us, an oblation and a sacrifice to God for an odour of sweetness. But fornication, and all uncleanness, or covetousness, let it not so much as be named among you, as becometh saints: Or obscenity, or foolish talking, or scurrility, which is to no purpose; but rather giving of thanks.

℟. I will praise thee, O Lord my God, with all my heart, and I will glorify thy Name for evermore. * For great is thy mercy, O Lord, toward me.
℣. Thou art my God, and I will praise thee; Thou art my God, and I will exalt thee.
℟. For great is thy mercy, O Lord, toward me.

Lesson II
Eph 5:5-8
For know you this and understand, that no fornicator, or unclean, or covetous person (which is a serving of idols), hath inheritance in the kingdom of Christ and of God. Let no man deceive you with vain words. For because of these things cometh the anger of God upon the children of unbelief. Be ye not therefore partakers with them. For you were heretofore darkness, but now light in the Lord. Walk then as children of the light.

℟. Great, O Lord, is thy mercy toward me. * And Thou hast delivered my soul from the lowest hell.
℣. In the day of my trouble I called upon thee, for Thou hast heard me.
℟. And Thou hast delivered my soul from the lowest hell.

Lesson III
Eph 5:9-14
For the fruit of the light is in all goodness, and justice, and truth; Proving what is well pleasing to God: And have no fellowship with the unfruitful works of darkness, but rather reprove them. For the things that are done by them in secret, it is a shame even to speak of. But all things that are reproved, are made manifest by the light; for all that is made manifest is light. Wherefore he saith: Rise thou that sleepest, and arise from the dead: and Christ shall enlighten thee.

℟. The Lord is my refuge. * And my God is the stay of my trust.
℣. He delivered me from the strongest of mine enemies, and the Lord was my stay.
℟. And my God is the stay of my trust.
℣. Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, * and to the Holy Ghost.
℟. And my God is the stay of my trust.
