Friday of the Fourth Week after Epiphany
Feria
[Tempora/Epi4-5]

Lesson I
Lesson from the first letter of St. Paul the Apostle to the Thessalonians
1 Thess 4:1-5
For the rest therefore, brethren, we pray and beseech you in the Lord Jesus, that as you have received from us, how you ought to walk, and to please God, so also you would walk, that you may abound the more. For you know what precepts I have given to you by the Lord Jesus. For this is the will of God, your sanctification; that you should abstain from fornication; That every one of you should know how to possess his vessel in sanctification and honour: Not in the passion of lust, like the Gentiles that know not God:

℟. I will praise thee, O Lord my God, with all my heart, and I will glorify thy Name for evermore. * For great is thy mercy, O Lord, toward me.
℣. Thou art my God, and I will praise thee; Thou art my God, and I will exalt thee.
℟. For great is thy mercy, O Lord, toward me.

Lesson II
1 Thess 4:6-8
And that no man overreach, nor circumvent his brother in business: because the Lord is the avenger of all these things, as we have told you before, and have testified. For God hath not called us unto uncleanness, but unto sanctification. Therefore, he that despiseth these things, despiseth not man, but God, who also hath given his holy Spirit in us.

℟. Great, O Lord, is thy mercy toward me. * And Thou hast delivered my soul from the lowest hell.
℣. In the day of my trouble I called upon thee, for Thou hast heard me.
℟. And Thou hast delivered my soul from the lowest hell.

Lesson III
1 Thess 4:9-12
But as touching the charity of brotherhood, we have no need to write to you: for yourselves have learned of God to love one another. For indeed you do it towards all the brethren in all Macedonia. But we entreat you, brethren, that you abound more: And that you use your endeavour to be quiet, and that you do your own business, and work with your own hands, as we commanded you: and that you walk honestly towards them that are without; and that you want nothing of any man's.

℟. The Lord is my refuge. * And my God is the stay of my trust.
℣. He delivered me from the strongest of mine enemies, and the Lord was my stay.
℟. And my God is the stay of my trust.
℣. Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, * and to the Holy Ghost.
℟. And my God is the stay of my trust.
