Thursday of the Fourth Week after Epiphany
Feria
[Tempora/Epi4-4]

Lesson I
Lesson from the first letter of St. Paul the Apostle to the Thessalonians
1 Thess 1:1-5
Paul and Sylvanus and Timothy: to the church of the Thessalonians, in God the Father, and in the Lord Jesus Christ. Grace be to you and peace. We give thanks to God always for you all; making a remembrance of you in our prayers without ceasing, Being mindful of the work of your faith, and labour, and charity, and of the enduring of the hope of our Lord Jesus Christ before God and our Father: Knowing, brethren beloved of God, your election: For our gospel hath not been unto you in word only, but in power also, and in the Holy Ghost, and in much fulness, as you know what manner of men we have been among you for your sakes.

℟. In thee, O God, do I put my trust; let me never be put to confusion, O Lord deliver me in thy righteousness, * And cause me to escape.
℣. Incline thine ear unto me, deliver me speedily.
℟. And cause me to escape.

Lesson II
1 Thess 1:6-10
And you became followers of us, and of the Lord; receiving the word in much tribulation, with joy of the Holy Ghost: So that you were made a pattern to all that believe in Macedonia and in Achaia. For from you was spread abroad the word of the Lord, not only in Macedonia, and in Achaia, but also in every place, your faith which is towards God, is gone forth, so that we need not to speak any thing. For they themselves relate of us, what manner of entering in we had unto you; and how you turned to God from idols, to serve the living and true God. And to wait for his Son from heaven (whom he raised up from the dead,) Jesus, who hath delivered us from the wrath to come.

℟. Let my mouth be filled with thy praise, that I may sing of thy glory, all the day long of thy greatness. Cast me not off in the time of old age; * Forsake me not when my strength faileth.
℣. My lips shall be fain when I sing unto thee.
℟. Forsake me not when my strength faileth.

Lesson III
1 Thess 2:1-6
For yourselves know, brethren, our entrance in unto you, that it was not in vain: But having suffered many things before, and been shamefully treated (as you know) at Philippi, we had confidence in our God, to speak unto you the gospel of God in much carefulness. For our exhortation was not of error, nor of uncleanness, nor in deceit: But as we were approved by God that the gospel should be committed to us: even so we speak, not as pleasing men, but God, who proveth our hearts. For neither have we used, at any time, the speech of flattery, as you know; nor taken an occasion of covetousness, God is witness: Nor sought we glory of men, neither of you, nor of others. Whereas we might have been burdensome to you, as the apostles of Christ: but we became little ones in the midst of you, as if a nurse should cherish her children:

℟. My lips shall be fain when I sing unto thee; * And my soul, which Thou, O Lord, hast redeemed.
℣. My tongue shall also talk of thy righteousness, all the day long of thy praise.
℟. And my soul, which Thou, O Lord, hast redeemed.
℣. Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, * and to the Holy Ghost.
℟. And my soul, which Thou, O Lord, hast redeemed.
