Tuesday of the Fourth Week after Epiphany
Feria
[Tempora/Epi4-2]

Lesson I
Lesson from the letter of St. Paul the Apostle to the Colossians
Col 1:1-8
Paul, an apostle of Jesus Christ, by the will of God, and Timothy, a brother, To the saints and faithful brethren in Christ Jesus, who are at Colossa. Grace be to you and peace from God our Father, and from the Lord Jesus Christ. We give thanks to God, and the Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, praying always for you. Hearing your faith in Christ Jesus, and the love which you have towards all the saints. For the hope that is laid up for you in heaven, which you have heard in the word of the truth of the gospel, Which is come unto you, as also it is in the whole world, and bringeth forth fruit and groweth, even as it doth in you, since the day you heard and knew the grace of God in truth. As you learned of Epaphras, our most beloved fellow servant, who is for you a faithful minister of Christ Jesus; Who also hath manifested to us your love in the spirit.

℟. O God, give ear unto my tears; hold not thy peace, but, O, spare me! * For I am a stranger with thee, and a sojourner.
℣. Be pleased, O Lord, to deliver me; O Lord, look upon me to help me.
℟. For I am a stranger with thee, and a sojourner.

Lesson II
Col 1:9-12
Therefore we also, from the day that we heard it, cease not to pray for you, and to beg that you may be filled with the knowledge of his will, in all wisdom, and spiritual understanding: That you may walk worthy of God, in all things pleasing; being fruitful in every good work, and increasing in the knowledge of God: Strengthened with all might, according to the power of his glory, in all patience and longsuffering with joy, Giving thanks to God the Father, who hath made us worthy to be partakers of the lot of the saints in light:

℟. The Lord hath set my feet upon a rock, and ordered my goings. * And He hath put a new song in my mouth.
℣. He heard my cry He brought me up also out of an horrible pit.
℟. And He hath put a new song in my mouth.

Lesson III
Col 1:13-18
Who hath delivered us from the power of darkness, and hath translated us into the kingdom of the Son of his love, In whom we have redemption through his blood, the remission of sins; Who is the image of the invisible God, the firstborn of every creature: For in him were all things created in heaven and on earth, visible and invisible, whether thrones, or dominations, or principalities, or powers: all things were created by him and in him. And he is before all, and by him all things consist. And he is the head of the body, the church, who is the beginning, the firstborn from the dead.

℟. I said: Lord, be merciful unto me. * Heal my soul, for I have sinned against thee.
℣. Deliver me from all mine iniquities, O Lord.
℟. Heal my soul, for I have sinned against thee.
℣. Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, * and to the Holy Ghost.
℟. Heal my soul, for I have sinned against thee.
