Fourth Sunday after Epiphany
Semiduplex
[Tempora/Epi4-0]

Lesson I
Lesson from the letter of St. Paul the Apostle to the Philippians
Phil 1:1-7
Paul and Timothy, the servants of Jesus Christ; to all the saints in Christ Jesus, who are at Philippi, with the bishops and deacons. Grace be unto you, and peace from God our Father, and from the Lord Jesus Christ. I give thanks to my God in every remembrance of you, Always in all my prayers making supplication for you all, with joy; For your communication in the gospel of Christ from the first day until now. Being confident of this very thing, that he, who hath begun a good work in you, will perfect it unto the day of Christ Jesus. As it is meet for me to think this for you all, for that I have you in my heart; and that in my bands, and in the defence and confirmation of the gospel, you all are partakers of my joy.

℟. O Lord, rebuke me not in thine anger, neither chasten me in thine hot displeasure. * Have mercy upon me, O Lord, for I am weak.
℣. Fearfulness and trembling are come upon me, and darkness hath overwhelmed me.
℟. Have mercy upon me, O Lord, for I am weak.

Lesson II
Phil 1:8-14
For God is my witness, how I long after you all in the bowels of Jesus Christ. And this I pray, that your charity may more and more abound in knowledge, and in all understanding: That you may approve the better things, that you may be sincere and without offence unto the day of Christ, Filled with the fruit of justice, through Jesus Christ, unto the glory and praise of God. Now, brethren, I desire you should know, that the things which have happened to me, have fallen out rather to the furtherance of the gospel: So that my bands are made manifest in Christ, in all the court, and in all other places; And many of the brethren in the Lord, growing confident by my bands, are much more bold to speak the word of God without fear.

℟. O God, Which satest in the throne judging right, be Thou a refuge for the poor, a refuge in times of trouble. * For Thou alone beholdest mischief and spite.
℣. The poor leaveth himself unto thee; Thou wilt be the helper of the fatherless.
℟. For Thou alone beholdest mischief and spite.

Lesson III
Phil 1:15-18
Some indeed, even out of envy and contention; but some also for good will preach Christ. Some out of charity, knowing that I am set for the defence of the gospel. And some out of contention preach Christ not sincerely: supposing that they raise affliction to my bands. But what then? So that by all means, whether by occasion, or by truth, Christ be preached: in this also I rejoice, yea, and will rejoice.

℟. The Lord is at my right hand, I shall never be moved. * Therefore my heart is glad, and my tongue rejoiceth.
℣. The Lord is the portion of mine inheritance, and of my cup.
℟. Therefore my heart is glad, and my tongue rejoiceth.
℣. Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, * and to the Holy Ghost.
℟. Therefore my heart is glad, and my tongue rejoiceth.

Lesson IV
From the Book of Moral (Reflections on Job) written by Pope St. Gregory (the Great.)
iv, 30
We refresh the body lest it should grow too weak and fail us; we chasten it by abstinence, lest it should wax gross, and become lord over us; we strengthen it with exercise, lest it perish by the not using; and straightway we give it rest, lest it faint through weariness; we succour it with raiment, lest the cold should blight it; and we strip it of the raiment wherewith we have clothed it, lest the heat should afflict it. In all these so many offices what do we but serve the corruptible? Upon what is all this care spent but upon that wherover hangeth the doom of weakness and change?

℟. O Lord, Thou hast shown me the path of life. * Thou shalt fill me with joy in thy presence, at thy right hand there are pleasures for evermore.
℣. Thou art He That shalt restore mine inheritance unto me.
℟. Thou shalt fill me with joy in thy presence, at thy right hand there are pleasures for evermore.

Lesson V
Therefore saith Paul tells: For the creature was made subject to vanity, not willingly, but by reason of Him Who hath subjected the same in hope because the creature itself also shall be delivered from the bondage of corruption into the glorious liberty of the children of God. (Rom. viii. 20.) The creature was made subject to vanity, not willingly for when man had of his own free will abdicated his state of unchangeable blessedness, the just sentence of death was passed upon him, and whether he willed or not, he became subject to the state of change and corruption. But the creature itself also shall be delivered from the bondage of corruption when it shall rise again incorruptible and be made partaker of the glory of the children of God.

℟. I will love thee, O Lord, my strength; the Lord is my rock * And my fortress.
℣. My Deliverer, my God, mine Helper.
℟. And my fortress.

Lesson VI
Where, then, the elect are still subject to sorrow, being yet bound by the sentence of corruption; but when we shall have put off this corruptible we shall be loosed from that sentence, and shall sorrow no more. For though we earnestly desire to appear before God, we are still hindered by the burden of this dying body. Rightly then are we called prisoners, since we are not free to go whither we will, that is to say, to God; and rightly did the prisoner Paul, yearning after the things which are eternal, and still weighed down with the burden of this corruptible, rightly did he cry out I have a desire to depart and to be with Christ. (Phil. i. 23.) He would not have felt this keenness if he had not felt himself bound down.

℟. The earth is the Lord's, and the fulness thereof * The world, and they that dwell therein.
℣. For He hath founded it upon the seas, and established it upon the floods.
℟. The world, and they that dwell therein.
℣. Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, * and to the Holy Ghost.
℟. The world, and they that dwell therein.

Lesson VII
From the Holy Gospel according to Matthew
Matt 8:23-27
At that time, when Jesus entered into the boat, his disciples followed him: And behold a great tempest arose in the sea, so that the boat was covered with waves, but he was asleep. And so on.

Homily by St. Jerome, Priest (at Bethlehem.)
Bk. i Comm. on Matth. viii
The fifth sign that He did was when He took ship at Capernaum, and commanded the winds and the sea the sixth, when, in the country of the Gergesenes, He suffered the devils to enter into the swine the seventh, when, as He came into His own city, He cured the man sick of the palsy lying on a bed. The first man sick of the palsy that He cured was the centurion's servant.

℟. Unto thee, O Lord, do I lift up my soul. * O my God, I trust in thee, let me not be ashamed.
℣. O keep my soul and deliver me.
℟. O my God, I trust in thee, let me not be ashamed.

Lesson VIII
But He was asleep; and His disciples came to Him, and awoke Him, saying Lord, save us. There is a type of this in the history of Jonah, who, when the storm arose, was lying fast asleep, and whom the sailors woke to help them; who also saved the sailors by commanding them to throw him into the sea, the said casting of him into the sea, being, as we know, a figure of Christ's Passion. Then He arose and rebuked the winds and the sea. From these words we understand that all things, which have been made, are sentient to their Maker. All things which He rebuketh or commandeth, hear His voice. This is not the error of the heretics who will have it that everything is quick, but part of the majesty of the Creator, Who maketh to feel Him things which we cannot make to feel us.

℟. One Seraph cried unto another: * Holy, Holy, Holy is the Lord God of hosts; the whole earth is full of His glory.
℣. There are Three That bear record in heaven: the Father, the Word, and the Holy Ghost, and these Three are One.
℟. Holy, Holy, Holy is the Lord God of hosts.
℣. Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, * and to the Holy Ghost.
℟. The whole earth is full of His glory.

Lesson IX
But the men marvelled, saying What manner of man is this, that even the winds and the sea obey Him? It was not His disciples that marvelled, but the sailors, and the others that were in the ship. If however, any one willeth to withstand this our interpretation and to maintain that it was the disciples who marvelled, we are ready to answer them that they who knew not before the power of the Saviour deserve to be stripped of the title of disciples, and to be called simply the men.

[Te Deum follows]
