Monday of the Fourth Week after Epiphany
Feria
[Tempora/Epi4-1]

Lesson I
Lesson from the letter of St. Paul the Apostle to the Philippians
Phil 4:1-3
Therefore, my dearly beloved brethren, and most desired, my joy and my crown; so stand fast in the Lord, my dearly beloved. I beg of Evodia, and I beseech Syntyche, to be of one mind in the Lord. And I entreat thee also, my sincere companion, help those women who have laboured with me in the gospel, with Clement and the rest of my fellow labourers, whose names are in the book of life.

℟. O how great is thy goodness, O Lord * Which Thou hast laid up for them that fear thee!
℣. Which Thou, O Lord, hast wrought for them that trust in thee before the sons of men!
℟. Which Thou hast laid up for them that fear thee!

Lesson II
Phil 4:4-7
Rejoice in the Lord always; again, I say, rejoice. Let your modesty be known to all men. The Lord is nigh. Be nothing solicitous; but in every thing, by prayer and supplication, with thanksgiving, let your petitions be made known to God. And the peace of God, which surpasseth all understanding, keep your hearts and minds in Christ Jesus.

℟. O God, be Thou my helper. * Neither leave me.
℣. Nor forsake me O God of my salvation.
℟. Neither leave me.

Lesson III
Phil 4:8-10
For the rest, brethren, whatsoever things are true, whatsoever modest, whatsoever just, whatsoever holy, whatsoever lovely, whatsoever of good fame, if there be any virtue, if any praise of discipline, think on these things. The things which you have both learned, and received, and heard, and seen in me, these do ye, and the God of peace shall be with you. Now I rejoice in the Lord exceedingly, that now at length your thought for me hath flourished again, as you did also think; but you were busied.

℟. I will bless the Lord at all times. * His praise shall continually be in my mouth.
℣. My soul shall make her boast in the Lord; the humble shall hear thereof and be glad.
℟. His praise shall continually be in my mouth.
℣. Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, * and to the Holy Ghost.
℟. His praise shall continually be in my mouth.
