Wednesday of the Fourth Week after Epiphany
Feria
[Tempora/Epi4-3]

Lesson I
Lesson from the letter of St. Paul the Apostle to the Colossians
Col 3:12-15
Put ye on therefore, as the elect of God, holy, and beloved, the bowels of mercy, benignity, humility, modesty, patience: Bearing with one another, and forgiving one another, if any have a complaint against another: even as the Lord hath forgiven you, so do you also. But above all these things have charity, which is the bond of perfection: And let the peace of Christ rejoice in your hearts, wherein also you are called in one body: and be ye thankful.

℟. Cut me not off in the midst of my sins. * Nor keep thy wrath against me for my latter end.
℣. Enter not into judgment with thy servant, O Lord.
℟. Nor keep thy wrath against me for my latter end.

Lesson II
Col 3:16-21
Let the word of Christ dwell in you abundantly, in all wisdom: teaching and admonishing one another in psalms, hymns, and spiritual canticles, singing in grace in your hearts to God. All whatsoever you do in word or in work, do all in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ, giving thanks to God and the Father by him. Wives, be subject to your husbands, as it behoveth in the Lord. Husbands, love your wives, and be not bitter towards them. Children, obey your parents in all things: for this is well pleasing to the Lord. Fathers, provoke not your children to indignation, lest they be discouraged.

℟. My heart is ready, O God, my heart is ready. * I will sing and give praise to the Lord.
℣. Awake up, my glory, awake, psaltery and harp! I will awake early.
℟. I will sing and give praise to the Lord.

Lesson III
Col 3:22-25; 4:1-2
Servants, obey in all things your masters according to the flesh, not serving to the eye, as pleasing men, but in simplicity of heart, fearing God. Whatsoever you do, do it from the heart, as to the Lord, and not to men: Knowing that you shall receive of the Lord the reward of inheritance. Serve ye the Lord Christ. For he that doth wrong, shall receive for that which he hath done wrongfully: and there is no respect of persons with God. Masters, do to your servants that which is just and equal: knowing that you also have a master in heaven. Be instant in prayer; watching in it with thanksgiving:

℟. Unto thee, O my Strength, will I sing, for God is my defence, * The God of my mercy.
℣. I will be glad and rejoice in thee, I will sing praise to thy Name, O Thou Most High.
℟. The God of my mercy.
℣. Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, * and to the Holy Ghost.
℟. The God of my mercy.
