Saturday of the Fourth Week after Epiphany
Feria
[Tempora/Epi4-6]

Lesson I
Lesson from the second letter of St. Paul the Apostle to the Thessalonians
2 Thess 1:1-5
Paul, and Sylvanus, and Timothy, to the church of the Thessalonians in God our Father, and the Lord Jesus Christ. Grace unto you, and peace from God our Father, and from the Lord Jesus Christ. We are bound to give thanks always to God for you, brethren, as it is fitting, because your faith groweth exceedingly, and the charity of every one of you towards each other, aboundeth: So that we ourselves also glory in you in the churches of God, for your patience and faith, and in all your persecutions and tribulations, which you endure, For an example of the just judgment of God, that you may be counted worthy of the kingdom of God, for which also you suffer.

℟. Mercy and judgment I will sing to thee, O Lord: * I will sing, and I will understand in the unspotted way, when thou shalt come to me.
℣. I walked in the innocence of my heart, in the midst of my house.
℟. Mercy and judgment I will sing to thee, O Lord

Lesson II
2 Thess 1:6-12
Seeing it is a just thing with God to repay tribulation to them that trouble you: And to you who are troubled, rest with us when the Lord Jesus shall be revealed from heaven, with the angels of his power: In a flame of fire, giving vengeance to them who know not God, and who obey not the gospel of our Lord Jesus Christ. Who shall suffer eternal punishment in destruction, from the face of the Lord, and from the glory of his power: When he shall come to be glorified in his saints, and to be made wonderful in all them who have believed; because our testimony was believed upon you in that day. Wherefore also we pray always for you; that our God would make you worthy of his vocation, and fulfill all the good pleasure of his goodness and the work of faith in power; That the name of our Lord Jesus may be glorified in you, and you in him, according to the grace of our God, and of the Lord Jesus Christ.

℟. Hear my prayer, O Lord, and let my crying come unto thee. * For thou wilt not despise, O God, the prayer of the destitute
℣. O let thine ears consider well the voice of my complaint
℟. For thou wilt not despise, O God, the prayer of the destitute.

Lesson III
2 Thess 2:1-4
And we beseech you, brethren, by the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ, and of our gathering together unto him: That you be not easily moved from your sense, nor be terrified, neither by spirit, nor by word, nor by epistle, as sent from us, as if the day of the Lord were at hand. Let no man deceive you by any means, for unless there come a revolt first, and the man of sin be revealed, the son of perdition, Who opposeth, and is lifted up above all that is called God, or that is worshipped, so that he sitteth in the temple of God, shewing himself as if he were God.

℟. Haste thee to hear me, O Lord. * But thou art the same, and thy years shall not fail.
℣. My days have declined like a shadow, and I am withered like grass.
℟. For my days are consumed away like smoke.
℣. Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, * and to the Holy Ghost.
℟. But thou art the same, and thy years shall not fail.
