Friday of the Fifth Week after Epiphany
Feria
[Tempora/Epi5-5]

Lessons I–III: from the Scripture of the day.

Lesson I
Lesson from the letter of St. Paul the Apostle to Titus
Titus 2:15;3:1-2
These things speak, and exhort and rebuke with all authority. Let no man despise thee. Admonish them to be subject to princes and powers, to obey at a word, to be ready to every good work. To speak evil of no man, not to be litigious, but gentle: shewing all mildness towards all men.

℟. I will praise thee, O Lord my God, with all my heart, and I will glorify thy Name for evermore. * For great is thy mercy, O Lord, toward me.
℣. Thou art my God, and I will praise thee; Thou art my God, and I will exalt thee.
℟. For great is thy mercy, O Lord, toward me.

Lesson II
Titus 3:3-7
For we ourselves also were some time unwise, incredulous, erring, slaves to diverse desires and pleasures, living in malice and envy, hateful, and hating one another. But when the goodness and kindness of God our Saviour appeared: Not by the works of justice, which we have done, but according to his mercy, he saved us, by the laver of regeneration, and renovation of the Holy Ghost; Whom he hath poured forth upon us abundantly, through Jesus Christ our Saviour: That, being justified by his grace, we may be heirs, according to hope of life everlasting.

℟. Great, O Lord, is thy mercy toward me. * And Thou hast delivered my soul from the lowest hell.
℣. In the day of my trouble I called upon thee, for Thou hast heard me.
℟. And Thou hast delivered my soul from the lowest hell.

Lesson III
Titus 3:8-11
It is a faithful saying: and these things I will have thee affirm constantly: that they, who believe in God, may be careful to excel in good works. These things are good and profitable unto men. But avoid foolish questions, and genealogies, and contentions, and strivings about the law. For they are unprofitable and vain. A man that is a heretic, after the first and second admonition, avoid: Knowing that he, that is such an one, is subverted, and sinneth, being condemned by his own judgment.

℟. The Lord is my refuge. * And my God is the stay of my trust.
℣. He delivered me from the strongest of mine enemies, and the Lord was my stay.
℟. And my God is the stay of my trust.
℣. Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, * and to the Holy Ghost.
℟. And my God is the stay of my trust.
