Saturday of the Fifth Week after Epiphany
Feria
[Tempora/Epi5-6]

Lesson I
Lesson from the letter of St. Paul the Apostle to Philemon
Phlm 1:1-6
Paul, a prisoner of Christ Jesus, and Timothy, a brother: to Philemon, our beloved and fellow labourer; And to Appia, our dearest sister, and to Archippus, our fellow soldier, and to the church which is in thy house: Grace to you and peace from God our Father, and from the Lord Jesus Christ. I give thanks to my God, always making a remembrance of thee in my prayers. Hearing of thy charity and faith, which thou hast in the Lord Jesus, and towards all the saints: That the communication of thy faith may be made evident in the acknowledgment of every good work, that is in you in Christ Jesus.

℟. I will praise thee, O Lord my God, with all my heart, and I will glorify thy Name for evermore. * For great is thy mercy, O Lord, toward me.
℣. Thou art my God, and I will praise thee; Thou art my God, and I will exalt thee.
℟. For great is thy mercy, O Lord, toward me.

Lesson II
Phlm 1:7-11
For I have had great joy and consolation in thy charity, because the bowels of the saints have been refreshed by thee, brother. Wherefore though I have much confidence in Christ Jesus, to command thee that which is to the purpose: For charity sake I rather beseech, whereas thou art such a one, as Paul an old man, and now a prisoner also of Jesus Christ. I beseech thee for my son, whom I have begotten in my bands, Onesimus, Who hath been heretofore unprofitable to thee, but now is profitable both to me and thee, whom I have sent back to thee.

℟. Great, O Lord, is thy mercy toward me. * And Thou hast delivered my soul from the lowest hell.
℣. In the day of my trouble I called upon thee, for Thou hast heard me.
℟. And Thou hast delivered my soul from the lowest hell.

Lesson III
Phlm 1:12-19
And do thou, therefore, receive him as my own bowels. Whom I would have retained with me, that in thy stead he might have ministered to me in the bands of the gospel: But without thy counsel I would do nothing: that thy good deed might not be as it were of necessity, but voluntary. For perhaps he therefore departed for a season from thee, that thou mightest receive him again for ever: Not now as a servant, but instead of a servant, a most dear brother, especially to me: but how much more to thee both in the flesh and in the Lord? If therefore thou count me a partner, receive him as myself. And if he hath wronged thee in any thing, or is in thy debt, put that to my account. I Paul have written it with my own hand: I will repay it: not to say to thee, that thou owest me thy own self also.

℟. The Lord is my refuge. * And my God is the stay of my trust.
℣. He delivered me from the strongest of mine enemies, and the Lord was my stay.
℟. And my God is the stay of my trust.
℣. Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, * and to the Holy Ghost.
℟. And my God is the stay of my trust.
