Monday of the Fifth Week after Epiphany
Feria
[Tempora/Epi5-1]

Lesson I
Lesson from the first letter of St. Paul the Apostle to Timothy
1 Tim 3:1-7
A faithful saying: if a man desire the office of a bishop, he desireth a good work. It behoveth therefore a bishop to be blameless, the husband of one wife, sober, prudent, of good behaviour, chaste, given to hospitality, a teacher, Not given to wine, no striker, but modest, not quarrelsome, not covetous, but One that ruleth well his own house, having his children in subjection with all chastity. But if a man know not how to rule his own house, how shall he take care of the church of God? Not a neophyte: lest being puffed up with pride, he fall into the judgment of the devil. Moreover he must have a good testimony of them who are without: lest he fall into reproach and the snare of the devil.

℟. O how great is thy goodness, O Lord * Which Thou hast laid up for them that fear thee!
℣. Which Thou, O Lord, hast wrought for them that trust in thee before the sons of men!
℟. Which Thou hast laid up for them that fear thee!

Lesson II
1 Tim 3:8-13
Deacons in like manner chaste, not double tongued, not given to much wine, not greedy of filthy lucre: Holding the mystery of faith in a pure conscience. And let these also first be proved: and so let them minister, having no crime. The women in like manner chaste, not slanderers, but sober, faithful in all things. Let deacons be the husbands of one wife: who rule well their children, and their own houses. For they that have ministered well, shall purchase to themselves a good degree, and much confidence in the faith which is in Christ Jesus.

℟. O God, be Thou my helper. * Neither leave me.
℣. Nor forsake me O God of my salvation.
℟. Neither leave me.

Lesson III
1 Tim 3:14-16;4:1
These things I write to thee, hoping that I shall come to thee shortly. But if I tarry long, that thou mayest know how thou oughtest to behave thyself in the house of God, which is the church of the living God, the pillar and ground of the truth. And evidently great is the mystery of godliness, which was manifested in the flesh, was justified in the spirit, appeared unto angels, hath been preached unto the Gentiles, is believed in the world, is taken up in glory. Now the Spirit manifestly saith, that in the last times some shall depart from the faith, giving heed to spirits of error, and doctrines of devils,

℟. I will bless the Lord at all times. * His praise shall continually be in my mouth.
℣. My soul shall make her boast in the Lord; the humble shall hear thereof and be glad.
℟. His praise shall continually be in my mouth.
℣. Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, * and to the Holy Ghost.
℟. His praise shall continually be in my mouth.
