Tuesday of the Fifth Week after Epiphany
Feria
[Tempora/Epi5-2]

Lesson I
Lesson from the secons letter of St. Paul the Apostle to Timothy
2 Tim 1:1-5
Paul, an apostle of Jesus Christ, by the will of God, according to the promise of life, which is in Christ Jesus. To Timothy my dearly beloved son, grace, mercy, and peace, from God the Father, and from Christ Jesus our Lord. I give thanks to God, whom I serve from my forefathers with a pure conscience, that without ceasing, I have a remembrance of thee in my prayers, night and day. Desiring to see thee, being mindful of thy tears, that I may be filled with joy, Calling to mind that faith which is in thee unfeigned, which also dwelt first in thy grandmother Lois, and in thy mother Eunice, and I am certain that in thee also.

℟. O God, give ear unto my tears; hold not thy peace, but, O, spare me! * For I am a stranger with thee, and a sojourner.
℣. Be pleased, O Lord, to deliver me; O Lord, look upon me to help me.
℟. For I am a stranger with thee, and a sojourner.

Lesson II
2 Tim 1:6-9
For which cause I admonish thee, that thou stir up the grace of God which is in thee, by the imposition of my hands. For God hath not given us the spirit of fear: but of power, and of love, and of sobriety. Be not thou therefore ashamed of the testimony of our Lord, nor of me his prisoner: but labour with the gospel, according to the power of God, Who hath delivered us and called us by his holy calling, not according to our works, but according to his own purpose and grace, which was given us in Christ Jesus before the times of the world.

℟. The Lord hath set my feet upon a rock, and ordered my goings. * And He hath put a new song in my mouth.
℣. He heard my cry He brought me up also out of an horrible pit.
℟. And He hath put a new song in my mouth.

Lesson III
2 Tim 1:10-13
But is now made manifest by the illumination of our Saviour Jesus Christ, who hath destroyed death, and hath brought to light life and incorruption by the gospel: Wherein I am appointed a preacher, and an apostle, and teacher of the Gentiles. For which cause I also suffer these things: but I am not ashamed. For I know whom I have believed, and I am certain that he is able to keep that which I have committed unto him, against that day. Hold the form of sound words, which thou hast heard of me in faith, and in the love which is in Christ Jesus.

℟. I said: Lord, be merciful unto me. * Heal my soul, for I have sinned against thee.
℣. Deliver me from all mine iniquities, O Lord.
℟. Heal my soul, for I have sinned against thee.
℣. Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, * and to the Holy Ghost.
℟. Heal my soul, for I have sinned against thee.
