Wednesday of the Fifth Week after Epiphany
Feria
[Tempora/Epi5-3]

Lesson I
Lesson from the second letter of St. Paul the Apostle to Timothy
2 Tim 3:1-5
Know also this, that, in the last days, shall come dangerous times. Men shall be lovers of themselves, covetous, haughty, proud, blasphemers, disobedient to parents, ungrateful, wicked, Without affection, without peace, slanderers, incontinent, unmerciful, without kindness, Traitors, stubborn, puffed up, and lovers of pleasures more than of God: Having an appearance indeed of godliness, but denying the power thereof. Now these avoid.

℟. Cut me not off in the midst of my sins. * Nor keep thy wrath against me for my latter end.
℣. Enter not into judgment with thy servant, O Lord.
℟. Nor keep thy wrath against me for my latter end.

Lesson II
2 Tim 3:6-9
For of these sort are they who creep into houses, and lead captive silly women laden with sins, who are led away with diverse desires: Ever learning, and never attaining to the knowledge of the truth. Now as Jannes and Mambres resisted Moses, so these also resist the truth, men corrupted in mind, reprobate concerning the faith. But they shall proceed no farther; for their folly shall be manifest to all men, as theirs also was.

℟. My heart is ready, O God, my heart is ready. * I will sing and give praise to the Lord.
℣. Awake up, my glory, awake, psaltery and harp! I will awake early.
℟. I will sing and give praise to the Lord.

Lesson III
2 Tim 3:10-13
But thou hast fully known my doctrine, manner of life, purpose, faith, longsuffering, love, patience, persecutions, afflictions: such as came upon me at Antioch, at Iconium, and at Lystra: what persecutions I endured, and out of them all the Lord delivered me. And all that will live godly in Christ Jesus, shall suffer persecution. But evil men and seducers shall grow worse and worse: erring, and driving into error.

℟. Unto thee, O my Strength, will I sing, for God is my defence, * The God of my mercy.
℣. I will be glad and rejoice in thee, I will sing praise to thy Name, O Thou Most High.
℟. The God of my mercy.
℣. Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, * and to the Holy Ghost.
℟. The God of my mercy.
