Thursday of the Sixth Week after Epiphany
Feria
[Tempora/Epi6-4]

Lesson I
Lesson from the letter of St. Paul the Apostle to the Hebrews
Heb 7:1-3
For this Melchisedech was king of Salem, priest of the most high God, who met Abraham returning from the slaughter of the kings, and blessed him: To whom also Abraham divided the tithes of all: who first indeed by interpretation, is king of justice: and then also king of Salem, that is, king of peace: Without father, without mother, without genealogy, having neither beginning of days nor end of life, but likened unto the Son of God, continueth a priest for ever.

℟. In thee, O God, do I put my trust; let me never be put to confusion, O Lord deliver me in thy righteousness, * And cause me to escape.
℣. Incline thine ear unto me, deliver me speedily.
℟. And cause me to escape.

Lesson II
Heb 7:4-6
Now consider how great this man is, to whom also Abraham the patriarch gave tithes out of the principal things. And indeed they that are of the sons of Levi, who receive the priesthood, have a commandment to take tithes of the people according to the law, that is to say, of their brethren: though they themselves also came out of the loins of Abraham. But he, whose pedigree is not numbered among them, received tithes of Abraham, and blessed him that had the promises.

℟. Let my mouth be filled with thy praise, that I may sing of thy glory, all the day long of thy greatness. Cast me not off in the time of old age; * Forsake me not when my strength faileth.
℣. My lips shall be fain when I sing unto thee.
℟. Forsake me not when my strength faileth.

Lesson III
Heb 7:7-12
And without all contradiction, that which is less, is blessed by the better. And here indeed, men that die, receive thithes: but there he hath witness, that he liveth. And (as it may be said) even Levi who received tithes, paid tithes in Abraham: For he was yet in the loins of his father, when Melchisedech met him. If then perfection was by the Levitical priesthood, (for under it the people received the law,) what further need was there that another priest should rise according to the order of Melchisedech, and not be called according to the order of Aaron? For the priesthood being translated, it is necessary that a translation also be made of the law.

℟. My lips shall be fain when I sing unto thee; * And my soul, which Thou, O Lord, hast redeemed.
℣. My tongue shall also talk of thy righteousness, all the day long of thy praise.
℟. And my soul, which Thou, O Lord, hast redeemed.
℣. Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, * and to the Holy Ghost.
℟. And my soul, which Thou, O Lord, hast redeemed.
