Wednesday of the Sixth Week after Epiphany
Feria
[Tempora/Epi6-3]

Lesson I
Lesson from the letter of St. Paul the Apostle to the Hebrews
Heb 6:1-3
Wherefore leaving the word of the beginning of Christ, let us go on to things more perfect, not laying again the foundation of penance from dead works, and of faith towards God, Of the doctrine of baptisms, and imposition of hands, and of the resurrection of the dead, and of eternal judgment. And this will we do, if God permit.

℟. Cut me not off in the midst of my sins. * Nor keep thy wrath against me for my latter end.
℣. Enter not into judgment with thy servant, O Lord.
℟. Nor keep thy wrath against me for my latter end.

Lesson II
Heb 6:4-6
For it is impossible for those who were once illuminated, have tasted also the heavenly gift, and were made partakers of the Holy Ghost, Have moreover tasted the good word of God, and the powers of the world to come, And are fallen away: to be renewed again to penance, crucifying again to themselves the Son of God, and making him a mockery.

℟. My heart is ready, O God, my heart is ready. * I will sing and give praise to the Lord.
℣. Awake up, my glory, awake, psaltery and harp! I will awake early.
℟. I will sing and give praise to the Lord.

Lesson III
Heb 6:7-10
For the earth that drinketh in the rain which cometh often upon it, and bringeth forth herbs meet for them by whom it is tilled, receiveth blessing from God. But that which bringeth forth thorns and briers, is reprobate, and very near unto a curse, whose end is to be burnt. But, my dearly beloved, we trust better things of you, and nearer to salvation; though we speak thus. For God is not unjust, that he should forget your work, and the love which you have shewn in his name, you who have ministered, and do minister to the saints.

℟. Unto thee, O my Strength, will I sing, for God is my defence, * The God of my mercy.
℣. I will be glad and rejoice in thee, I will sing praise to thy Name, O Thou Most High.
℟. The God of my mercy.
℣. Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, * and to the Holy Ghost.
℟. The God of my mercy.
