Monday of the Sixth Week after Epiphany
Feria
[Tempora/Epi6-1]

Lesson I
Lesson from the letter of St. Paul the Apostle to the Hebrews
Heb 3:1-4
Wherefore, holy brethren, partakers of the heavenly vocation, consider the apostle and high priest of our confession, Jesus: Who is faithful to him that made him, as was also Moses in all his house. For this man was counted worthy of greater glory than Moses, by so much as he that hath built the house, hath greater honour than the house. For every house is built by some man: but he that created all things, is God.

℟. O how great is thy goodness, O Lord * Which Thou hast laid up for them that fear thee!
℣. Which Thou, O Lord, hast wrought for them that trust in thee before the sons of men!
℟. Which Thou hast laid up for them that fear thee!

Lesson II
Heb 3:5-8
And Moses indeed was faithful in all his house as a servant, for a testimony of those things which were to be said: But Christ as the Son in his own house: which house are we, if we hold fast the confidence and glory of hope unto the end. Wherefore, as the Holy Ghost saith: To day if you shall hear his voice, Harden not your hearts, as in the provocation; in the day of temptation in the desert,

℟. O God, be Thou my helper. * Neither leave me.
℣. Nor forsake me O God of my salvation.
℟. Neither leave me.

Lesson III
Heb 3:12-16
Take heed, brethren, lest perhaps there be in any of you an evil heart of unbelief, to depart from the living God. But exhort one another every day, whilst it is called to day, that none of you be hardened through the deceitfulness of sin. For we are made partakers of Christ: yet so, if we hold the beginning of his substance firm unto the end. While it is said, To day if you shall hear his voice, harden not your hearts, as in that provocation. For some who heard did provoke: but not all that came out of Egypt by Moses.

℟. I will bless the Lord at all times. * His praise shall continually be in my mouth.
℣. My soul shall make her boast in the Lord; the humble shall hear thereof and be glad.
℟. His praise shall continually be in my mouth.
℣. Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, * and to the Holy Ghost.
℟. His praise shall continually be in my mouth.
