Friday of the Sixth Week after Epiphany
Feria
[Tempora/Epi6-5]

Lesson I
Lesson from the letter of St. Paul the Apostle to the Hebrews
Heb 11:1-4
Now faith is the substance of things to be hoped for, the evidence of things that appear not. For by this the ancients obtained a testimony. By faith we understand that the world was framed by the word of God; that from invisible things visible things might be made. By faith Abel offered to God a sacrifice exceeding that of Cain, by which he obtained a testimony that he was just, God giving testimony to his gifts; and by it he being dead yet speaketh.

℟. I will praise thee, O Lord my God, with all my heart, and I will glorify thy Name for evermore. * For great is thy mercy, O Lord, toward me.
℣. Thou art my God, and I will praise thee; Thou art my God, and I will exalt thee.
℟. For great is thy mercy, O Lord, toward me.

Lesson II
Heb 11:5-7
By faith Henoch was translated, that he should not see death; and he was not found, because God had translated him: for before his translation he had testimony that he pleased God. But without faith it is impossible to please God. For he that cometh to God, must believe that he is, and is a rewarder to them that seek him. By faith Noe, having received an answer concerning those things which as yet were not seen, moved with fear, framed the ark for the saving of his house, by the which he condemned the world; and was instituted heir of the justice which is by faith.

℟. Great, O Lord, is thy mercy toward me. * And Thou hast delivered my soul from the lowest hell.
℣. In the day of my trouble I called upon thee, for Thou hast heard me.
℟. And Thou hast delivered my soul from the lowest hell.

Lesson III
Heb 1:8-10
But to the Son: thy throne, O God, is for ever and ever: a sceptre of justice is the sceptre of thy kingdom. Thou hast loved justice, and hated iniquity: therefore God, thy God, hath anointed thee with the oil of gladness above thy fellows. And: Thou in the beginning, O Lord, didst found the earth: and the works of thy hands are the heavens.

℟. The Lord is my refuge. * And my God is the stay of my trust.
℣. He delivered me from the strongest of mine enemies, and the Lord was my stay.
℟. And my God is the stay of my trust.
℣. Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, * and to the Holy Ghost.
℟. And my God is the stay of my trust.
