1 January: Epistle to the Romans, chapter 4
Feria
[Tempora/Nat01]

Lesson I
Lesson from the letter of St. Paul the Apostle to the Romans
Rom 4:1-8
What shall we say then that Abraham hath found, who is our father according to the flesh. For if Abraham were justified by works, he hath whereof to glory, but not before God. For what saith the scripture? Abraham believed God, and it was reputed to him unto justice. Now to him that worketh, the reward is not reckoned according to grace, but according to debt. But to him that worketh not, yet believeth in him that justifieth the ungodly, his faith is reputed to justice, according to the purpose of the grace of God. As David also termeth the blessedness of a man, to whom God reputeth justice without works: Blessed are they whose iniquities are forgiven, and whose sins are covered. Blessed is the man to whom the Lord hath not imputed sin.

℟. Behold the Lamb of God, behold Him Which taketh away the sins of the world; behold Him of Whom I said unto you: He That cometh after me is preferred before me * Whose shoe's latchet I am not worthy to unloose.
℣. He that is of the earth speaketh of the earth; He That cometh from heaven is above all.
℟. Whose shoe's latchet I am not worthy to unloose.

Lesson II
Rom 4:9-12
This blessedness then, doth it remain in the circumcision only, or in the uncircumcision also? For we say that unto Abraham faith was reputed to justice. How then was it reputed? When he was in circumcision, or in uncircumcision? Not in circumcision, but in uncircumcision. And he received the sign of circumcision, a seal of the justice of the faith, which he had, being uncircumcised; that he might be the father of all them that believe, being uncircumcised, that unto them also it may be reputed to justice: And might be the father of circumcision; not to them only, that are of the circumcision, but to them also that follow the steps of the faithful, that is in the uncircumcision of our father Abraham.

℟. This day which is breaking is holy; O come, ye Gentiles, and worship the Lord. * For this day is much light come down unto us from heaven.
℣. This is the day which the Lord hath made, let us rejoice and be glad in it.
℟. For this day is much light come down unto us from heaven.

Lesson III
Rom 4:13-17
For not through the law was the promise to Abraham, or to his seed, that he should be heir of the world; but through the justice of faith. For if they who are of the law be heirs, faith is made void, the promise is made of no effect. For the law worketh wrath. For where there is no law, neither is there transgression. Therefore is it of faith, that according to grace the promise might be firm to all the seed; not to that only which is of the law, but to that also which is of the faith of Abraham, who is the father of us all, As it is written: I have made thee a father of many nations, before God, whom he believed, who quickeneth the dead; and calleth those things that are not, as those that are.

℟. Blessed be He That cometh in the name of the Lord! God is the Lord Who hath showed us light. * Alleluia, Alleluia.
℣. This is the day which the Lord hath made, let us rejoice and be glad in it.
℟. Alleluia, Alleluia.
℣. Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, * and to the Holy Ghost.
℟. Alleluia, Alleluia.
