5 January: Epistle to the Romans, chapter 8
Feria
[Tempora/Nat05]

Lesson I
Lesson from the letter of St. Paul the Apostle to the Romans
Rom 8:1-4
There is now therefore no condemnation to them that are in Christ Jesus, who walk not according to the flesh. For the law of the spirit of life, in Christ Jesus, hath delivered me from the law of sin and of death. For what the law could not do, in that it was weak through the flesh; God sending his own Son, in the likeness of sinful flesh and of sin, hath condemned sin in the flesh; That the justification of the law might be fulfilled in us, who walk not according to the flesh, but according to the spirit.

℟. Behold the Lamb of God, behold Him Which taketh away the sins of the world; behold Him of Whom I said unto you: He That cometh after me is preferred before me * Whose shoe's latchet I am not worthy to unloose.
℣. He that is of the earth speaketh of the earth; He That cometh from heaven is above all.
℟. Whose shoe's latchet I am not worthy to unloose.

Lesson II
Rom 8:5-9
For they that are according to the flesh, mind the things that are of the flesh; but they that are according to the spirit, mind the things that are of the spirit. For the wisdom of the flesh is death; but the wisdom of the spirit is life and peace. Because the wisdom of the flesh is an enemy to God; for it is not subject to the law of God, neither can it be. And they who are in the flesh, cannot please God. But you are not in the flesh, but in the spirit, if so be that the Spirit of God dwell in you.

℟. This day which is breaking is holy; O come, ye Gentiles, and worship the Lord. * For this day is much light come down unto us from heaven.
℣. This is the day which the Lord hath made, let us rejoice and be glad in it.
℟. For this day is much light come down unto us from heaven.

Lesson III
Rom 8:9-11
Now if any man have not the Spirit of Christ, he is none of his. And if Christ be in you, the body indeed is dead, because of sin; but the spirit liveth, because of justification. And if the Spirit of him that raised up Jesus from the dead, dwell in you; he that raised up Jesus Christ from the dead, shall quicken also your mortal bodies, because of his Spirit that dwelleth in you.

℟. Blessed be He That cometh in the name of the Lord! God is the Lord Who hath showed us light. * Alleluia, Alleluia.
℣. This is the day which the Lord hath made, let us rejoice and be glad in it.
℟. Alleluia, Alleluia.
℣. Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, * and to the Holy Ghost.
℟. Alleluia, Alleluia.
