9 January: Epistle to the Romans, chapter 13
Feria
[Tempora/Nat09]

Lesson I
Lesson from the letter of St. Paul the Apostle to the Romans
Rom 13:1-4
Let every soul be subject to higher powers: for there is no power but from God: and those that are, are ordained of God. Therefore he that resisteth the power, resisteth the ordinance of God. And they that resist, purchase to themselves damnation. For princes are not a terror to the good work, but to the evil. Wilt thou then not be afraid of the power? Do that which is good: and thou shalt have praise from the same. For he is God's minister to thee, for good. But if thou do that which is evil, fear: for he beareth not the sword in vain.

℟. There are three precious gifts which the wise men offered unto the Lord on this day, and they speak a mystery of the things of God: * Gold, to show His kingly power; frankincense, for our Great High Priest; and myrrh, against the Lord's burying.
℣. The wise men worshipped the Captain of our Salvation, as He lay in the manger, and when they had opened their treasures, they presented unto Him mystic gifts.
℟. Gold, to show His kingly power; frankincense, for our Great High Priest; and myrrh, against the Lord's burying.

Lesson II
Rom 13:4-7
For he is God's minister: an avenger to execute wrath upon him that doth evil. Wherefore be subject of necessity, not only for wrath, but also for conscience' sake. For therefore also you pay tribute. For they are the ministers of God, serving unto this purpose. Render therefore to all men their dues. Tribute, to whom tribute is due: custom, to whom custom: fear, to whom fear: honour, to whom honour.

℟. The Holy Ghost appeared in a bodily shape like a dove, and the voice of the Father was heard: * This is My beloved Son, in Whom I am well pleased.
℣. The heavens were opened unto him, and, lo, the voice of the Father was heard, like unto thunder, saying:
℟. This is My beloved Son, in Whom I am well pleased.

Lesson III
Rom 13:8-10
Owe no man any thing, but to love one another. For he that loveth his neighbour hath fulfilled the law. For: Thou shalt not commit adultery: Thou shalt not kill: Thou shalt not steal: Thou shalt not bear false witness: Thou shalt not covet. And if there be any other commandment, it is comprised in this word: Thou shalt love thy neighbour as thyself. The love of our neighbour worketh no evil. Love therefore is the fulfilling of the law.

℟. The kings of Tarshish and of the isles shall bring presents. * The kings of Arabia and Saba shall offer gifts unto the Lord God.
℣. All they from Saba shall come, they shall bring gold and incense.
℟. The kings of Arabia and Saba shall offer gifts unto the Lord God.
℣. Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, * and to the Holy Ghost.
℟. The kings of Arabia and Saba shall offer gifts unto the Lord God.
