7 January: Epistle to the Romans, chapter 9
Feria
[Tempora/Nat07]

Lesson I
Lesson from the letter of St. Paul the Apostle to the Romans
Rom 9:1-5
I speak the truth in Christ, I lie not, my conscience bearing me witness in the Holy Ghost: That I have great sadness, and continual sorrow in my heart. For I wished myself to be an anathema from Christ, for my brethren, who are my kinsmen according to the flesh, Who are Israelites, to whom belongeth the adoption as of children, and the glory, and the testament, and the giving of the law, and the service of God, and the promises: Whose are the fathers, and of whom is Christ, according to the flesh, who is over all things, God blessed for ever. Amen.

℟. There are three precious gifts which the wise men offered unto the Lord on this day, and they speak a mystery of the things of God: * Gold, to show His kingly power; frankincense, for our Great High Priest; and myrrh, against the Lord's burying.
℣. The wise men worshipped the Captain of our Salvation, as He lay in the manger, and when they had opened their treasures, they presented unto Him mystic gifts.
℟. Gold, to show His kingly power; frankincense, for our Great High Priest; and myrrh, against the Lord's burying.

Lesson II
Rom 9:6-10
Not as though the word of God hath miscarried. For all are not Israelites that are of Israel: Neither are all they that are the seed of Abraham, children; but in Isaac shall thy seed be called: That is to say, not they that are the children of the flesh, are the children of God; but they, that are the children of the promise, are accounted for the seed. For this is the word of promise: According to this time will I come; and Sara shall have a son. And not only she. But when Rebecca also had conceived at once, of Isaac our father.

℟. The Holy Ghost appeared in a bodily shape like a dove, and the voice of the Father was heard: * This is My beloved Son, in Whom I am well pleased.
℣. The heavens were opened unto him, and, lo, the voice of the Father was heard, like unto thunder, saying:
℟. This is My beloved Son, in Whom I am well pleased.

Lesson III
Rom 9:11-16
For when the children were not yet born, nor had done any good or evil that the purpose of God, according to election, might stand, Not of works, but of him that calleth, it was said to her: The elder shall serve the younger. As it is written: Jacob I have loved, but Esau I have hated. What shall we say then? Is there injustice with God? God forbid. For he saith to Moses: I will have mercy on whom I will have mercy; and I will shew mercy to whom I will shew mercy. So then it is not of him that willeth, nor of him that runneth, but of God that sheweth mercy.

℟. The kings of Tarshish and of the isles shall bring presents. * The kings of Arabia and Saba shall offer gifts unto the Lord God.
℣. All they from Saba shall come, they shall bring gold and incense.
℟. The kings of Arabia and Saba shall offer gifts unto the Lord God.
℣. Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, * and to the Holy Ghost.
℟. The kings of Arabia and Saba shall offer gifts unto the Lord God.
