4 January: Epistle to the Romans, chapter 7
Feria
[Tempora/Nat04]

Lesson I
Lesson from the letter of St. Paul the Apostle to the Romans
Rom 7:1-3
Know you not, brethren, for I speak to them that know the law, that the law hath dominion over a man, as long as it liveth? For the woman that hath an husband, whilst her husband liveth is bound to the law. But if her husband be dead, she is loosed from the law of her husband. Therefore, whilst her husband liveth, she shall be called an adulteress, if she be with another man: but if her husband be dead, she is delivered from the law of her husband; so that she is not an adulteress, if she be with another man.

℟. O Mary, how holy and how spotless is thy virginity! I am too dull to praise thee! * For thou hast borne in thy breast Him Whom the heavens cannot contain.
℣. Blessed art thou among women, and blessed is the fruit of thy womb.
℟. For thou hast borne in thy breast Him Whom the heavens cannot contain.

Lesson II
Rom 7:4-6
Therefore, my brethren, you also are become dead to the law, by the body of Christ; that you may belong to another, who is risen again from the dead, that we may bring forth fruit to God. For when we were in the flesh, the passions of sins, which were by the law, did work in our members, to bring forth fruit unto death. But now we are loosed from the law of death, wherein we were detained; so that we should serve in newness of spirit, and not in the oldness of the letter.

℟. The Virgin-Mother that knew not a man, bore, but travailed not. * She fed the Saviour of the world, The King of Angel hosts above, Jesus, our Redeemer blest, From the fountain of her breast.
℣. Soon rises in that modest shrine, The Temple of the Lord Divine; The stainless and unwedded one, Within her womb conceived the Son.
℟. She fed the Saviour of the world, The King of Angel hosts above, Jesus, our Redeemer blest, From the fountain of her breast.
℣. Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, * and to the Holy Ghost.
℟. She fed the Saviour of the world, The King of Angel hosts above, Jesus, our Redeemer blest, From the fountain of her breast.
