11 January: Epistle to the Romans, chapter 15
Feria
[Tempora/Nat11]

Lesson I
Lesson from the letter of St. Paul the Apostle to the Romans
Rom 15:1-4
Now we that are stronger, ought to bear the infirmities of the weak, and not to please ourselves. Let every one of you please his neighbour unto good, to edification. For Christ did not please himself, but as it is written: The reproaches of them that reproached thee, fell upon me. For what things soever were written, were written for our learning: that through patience and the comfort of the scriptures, we might have hope.

℟. There are three precious gifts which the wise men offered unto the Lord on this day, and they speak a mystery of the things of God: * Gold, to show His kingly power; frankincense, for our Great High Priest; and myrrh, against the Lord's burying.
℣. The wise men worshipped the Captain of our Salvation, as He lay in the manger, and when they had opened their treasures, they presented unto Him mystic gifts.
℟. Gold, to show His kingly power; frankincense, for our Great High Priest; and myrrh, against the Lord's burying.

Lesson II
Rom 15:5-11
Now the God of patience and of comfort grant you to be of one mind one towards another, according to Jesus Christ: That with one mind, and with one mouth, you may glorify God and the Father of our Lord Jesus Christ. Wherefore receive one another, as Christ also hath received you unto the honour of God. For I say that Christ Jesus was minister of the circumcision for the truth of God, to confirm the promises made unto the fathers. But that the Gentiles are to glorify God for his mercy, as it is written: Therefore will I confess to thee, O Lord, among the Gentiles, and will sing to thy name. And again he saith: Rejoice, ye Gentiles, with his people. And again: Praise the Lord, all ye Gentiles; and magnify him, all ye people.

℟. The Holy Ghost appeared in a bodily shape like a dove, and the voice of the Father was heard: * This is My beloved Son, in Whom I am well pleased.
℣. The heavens were opened unto him, and, lo, the voice of the Father was heard, like unto thunder, saying:
℟. This is My beloved Son, in Whom I am well pleased.

Lesson III
Rom 15:12-16
And again Isaias saith: There shall be a root of Jesse; and he that shall rise up to rule the Gentiles, in him the Gentiles shall hope. Now the God of hope fill you with all joy and peace in believing; that you may abound in hope, and in the power of the Holy Ghost. And I myself also, my brethren, am assured of you, that you also are full of love, replenished with all knowledge, so that you are able to admonish one another. But I have written to you, brethren, more boldly in some sort, as it were putting you in mind: because of the grace which is given me from God. That I should be the minister of Christ Jesus among the Gentiles; sanctifying the gospel of God, that the oblation of the Gentiles may be made acceptable and sanctified in the Holy Ghost.

℟. The kings of Tarshish and of the isles shall bring presents. * The kings of Arabia and Saba shall offer gifts unto the Lord God.
℣. All they from Saba shall come, they shall bring gold and incense.
℟. The kings of Arabia and Saba shall offer gifts unto the Lord God.
℣. Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, * and to the Holy Ghost.
℟. The kings of Arabia and Saba shall offer gifts unto the Lord God.
