10 January: Epistle to the Romans, chapter 14
Feria
[Tempora/Nat10]

Lesson I
Lesson from the letter of St. Paul the Apostle to the Romans
Rom 14:1-4
Now him that is weak in faith, take unto you: not in disputes about thoughts. For one believeth that he may eat all things: but he that is weak, let him eat herbs. Let not him that eateth, despise him that eateth not: and he that eateth not, let him not judge him that eateth. For God hath taken him to him. Who art thou that judgest another man's servant? To his own lord he standeth or falleth. And he shall stand: for God is able to make him stand.

℟. There are three precious gifts which the wise men offered unto the Lord on this day, and they speak a mystery of the things of God: * Gold, to show His kingly power; frankincense, for our Great High Priest; and myrrh, against the Lord's burying.
℣. The wise men worshipped the Captain of our Salvation, as He lay in the manger, and when they had opened their treasures, they presented unto Him mystic gifts.
℟. Gold, to show His kingly power; frankincense, for our Great High Priest; and myrrh, against the Lord's burying.

Lesson II
Rom 14:5-8
For one judgeth between day and day: and another judgeth every day: let every man abound in his own sense. He that regardeth the day, regardeth it unto the Lord. And he that eateth, eateth to the Lord: for he giveth thanks to God. And he that eateth not, to the Lord he eateth not, and giveth thanks to God. For none of us liveth to himself; and no man dieth to himself. For whether we live, we live unto the Lord; or whether we die, we die unto the Lord. Therefore, whether we live, or whether we die, we are the Lord's.

℟. The Holy Ghost appeared in a bodily shape like a dove, and the voice of the Father was heard: * This is My beloved Son, in Whom I am well pleased.
℣. The heavens were opened unto him, and, lo, the voice of the Father was heard, like unto thunder, saying:
℟. This is My beloved Son, in Whom I am well pleased.

Lesson III
Rom 14:9-13
For to this end Christ died and rose again; that he might be Lord both of the dead and of the living. But thou, why judgest thou thy brother? or thou, why dost thou despise thy brother? For we shall all stand before the judgment seat of Christ. For it is written: As I live, saith the Lord, every knee shall bow to me, and every tongue shall confess to God. Therefore every one of us shall render account to God for himself. Let us not therefore judge one another any more. But judge this rather, that you put not a stumblingblock or a scandal in your brother's way.

℟. The kings of Tarshish and of the isles shall bring presents. * The kings of Arabia and Saba shall offer gifts unto the Lord God.
℣. All they from Saba shall come, they shall bring gold and incense.
℟. The kings of Arabia and Saba shall offer gifts unto the Lord God.
℣. Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, * and to the Holy Ghost.
℟. The kings of Arabia and Saba shall offer gifts unto the Lord God.
