29 December
Semiduplex
[Tempora/Nat29]

Lesson I
Beginning of the letter of St. Paul the Apostle to the Romans
Rom 1:1-7
Paul, a servant of Jesus Christ, called to be an apostle, separated unto the gospel of God, Which he had promised before, by his prophets, in the holy scriptures, Concerning his Son, who was made to him of the seed of David, according to the flesh, Who was predestinated the Son of God in power, according to the spirit of sanctification, by the resurrection of our Lord Jesus Christ from the dead; By whom we have received grace and apostleship for obedience to the faith, in all nations, for his name; Among whom are you also the called of Jesus Christ: To all that are at Rome, the beloved of God, called to be saints. Grace to you, and peace from God our Father, and from the Lord Jesus Christ.

℟. This day is the true peace come down unto us from heaven. * This day throughout the whole world the skies drop down sweetness.
℣. This day is the daybreak of our new redemption, of the restoring of the old, of everlasting joy.
℟. This day throughout the whole world the skies drop down sweetness.

Lesson II
Rom 1:8-12
First I give thanks to my God, through Jesus Christ, for you all, because your faith is spoken of in the whole world. For God is my witness, whom I serve in my spirit in the gospel of his Son, that without ceasing I make a commemoration of you; Always in my prayers making request, if by any means now at length I may have a prosperous journey, by the will of God, to come unto you. For I long to see you, that I may impart unto you some spiritual grace, to strengthen you: That is to say, that I may be comforted together in you, by that which is common to us both, your faith and mine.

℟. O ye shepherds, speak, and tell us what ye have seen; who is appeared in the earth? * We saw the new-born Child, and Angels singing praise to the Lord.
℣. Speak; what have ye seen? And tell us of the Birth of Christ.
℟. We saw the new-born Child, and Angels singing praise to the Lord.

Lesson III
Rom 1:13-19
And I would not have you ignorant, brethren, that I have often purposed to come unto you, (and have been hindered hitherto,) that I might have some fruit among you also, even as among other Gentiles. To the Greeks and to the barbarians, to the wise and to the unwise, I am a debtor; So (as much as is in me) I am ready to preach the gospel to you also that are at Rome. For I am not ashamed of the gospel. For it is the power of God unto salvation to every one that believeth, to the Jew first, and to the Greek. For the justice of God is revealed therein, from faith unto faith, as it is written: The just man liveth by faith. For the wrath of God is revealed from heaven against all ungodliness and injustice of those men that detain the truth of God in injustice: Because that which is known of God is manifest in them. For God hath manifested it unto them.

℟. How great is this mystery, how wonderful is the teaching of the faith! The beasts saw the new-born Lord lying in a manger. * Blessed is that Virgin whose womb was made meet to bear our Lord Christ.
℣. Hail, Mary, full of grace the Lord is with thee.
℟. Blessed is that Virgin whose womb was made meet to bear our Lord Christ.
℣. Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, * and to the Holy Ghost.
℟. Blessed is that Virgin whose womb was made meet to bear our Lord Christ.
