31 December
Semiduplex
[Tempora/Nat31]

Lesson I
Lesson from the letter of St. Paul the Apostle to the Romans
Rom 3:19-22
Now we know, that what things soever the law speaketh, it speaketh to them that are in the law; that every mouth may be stopped, and all the world may be made subject to God. Because by the works of the law no flesh shall be justified before him. For by the law is the knowledge of sin. But now without the law the justice of God is made manifest, being witnessed by the law and the prophets. Even the justice of God, by faith of Jesus Christ, unto all and upon all them that believe in him: for there is no distinction:

℟. This day is the true peace come down unto us from heaven. * This day throughout the whole world the skies drop down sweetness.
℣. This day is the daybreak of our new redemption, of the restoring of the old, of everlasting joy.
℟. This day throughout the whole world the skies drop down sweetness.

Lesson II
Rom 3:23-26
For all have sinned, and do need the glory of God. Being justified freely by his grace, through the redemption, that is in Christ Jesus, Whom God hath proposed to be a propitiation, through faith in his blood, to the shewing of his justice, for the remission of former sins, Through the forbearance of God, for the shewing of his justice in this time; that he himself may be just, and the justifier of him, who is of the faith of Jesus Christ.

℟. O ye shepherds, speak, and tell us what ye have seen; who is appeared in the earth? * We saw the new-born Child, and Angels singing praise to the Lord.
℣. Speak; what have ye seen? And tell us of the Birth of Christ.
℟. We saw the new-born Child, and Angels singing praise to the Lord.

Lesson III
Rom 3:27-31
Where is then thy boasting? It is excluded. By what law? Of works? No, but by the law of faith. For we account a man to be justified by faith, without the works of the law. Is he the God of the Jews only? Is he not also of the Gentiles? Yes, of the Gentiles also. For it is one God, that justifieth circumcision by faith, and uncircumcision through faith. Do we, then, destroy the law through faith? God forbid: but we establish the law.

℟. How great is this mystery, how wonderful is the teaching of the faith! The beasts saw the new-born Lord lying in a manger. * Blessed is that Virgin whose womb was made meet to bear our Lord Christ.
℣. Hail, Mary, full of grace the Lord is with thee.
℟. Blessed is that Virgin whose womb was made meet to bear our Lord Christ.
℣. Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, * and to the Holy Ghost.
℟. Blessed is that Virgin whose womb was made meet to bear our Lord Christ.
