30 December
Semiduplex
[Tempora/Nat30]

Lesson I
Lesson from the letter of St. Paul the Apostle to the Romans
Rom 2:1-4
Wherefore thou art inexcusable, O man, whosoever thou art that judgest. For wherein thou judgest another, thou condemnest thyself. For thou dost the same things which thou judgest. For we know that the judgment of God is, according to truth, against them that do such things. And thinkest thou this, O man, that judgest them who do such things, and dost the same, that thou shalt escape the judgment of God? Or despisest thou the riches of his goodness, and patience, and longsuffering? Knowest thou not, that the benignity of God leadeth thee to penance?

℟. This day is the true peace come down unto us from heaven. * This day throughout the whole world the skies drop down sweetness.
℣. This day is the daybreak of our new redemption, of the restoring of the old, of everlasting joy.
℟. This day throughout the whole world the skies drop down sweetness.

Lesson II
Rom 2:5-8
But according to thy hardness and impenitent heart, thou treasurest up to thyself wrath, against the day of wrath, and revelation of the just judgment of God. Who will render to every man according to his works. To them indeed, who according to patience in good work, seek glory and honour and incorruption, eternal life: But to them that are contentious, and who obey not the truth, but give credit to iniquity, wrath and indignation.

℟. O ye shepherds, speak, and tell us what ye have seen; who is appeared in the earth? * We saw the new-born Child, and Angels singing praise to the Lord.
℣. Speak; what have ye seen? And tell us of the Birth of Christ.
℟. We saw the new-born Child, and Angels singing praise to the Lord.

Lesson III
Rom 2:9-13
Tribulation and anguish upon every soul of man that worketh evil, of the Jew first, and also of the Greek. But glory, and honour, and peace to every one that worketh good, to the Jew first, and also to the Greek. For there is no respect of persons with God. For whosoever have sinned without the law, shall perish without the law; and whosoever have sinned in the law, shall be judged by the law. For not the hearers of the law are just before God, but the doers of the law shall be justified.

℟. How great is this mystery, how wonderful is the teaching of the faith! The beasts saw the new-born Lord lying in a manger. * Blessed is that Virgin whose womb was made meet to bear our Lord Christ.
℣. Hail, Mary, full of grace the Lord is with thee.
℟. Blessed is that Virgin whose womb was made meet to bear our Lord Christ.
℣. Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, * and to the Holy Ghost.
℟. Blessed is that Virgin whose womb was made meet to bear our Lord Christ.

Lesson IV
Sermon by St. Leo the Pope
Sermon 6 on the Nativity of the Lord
In any day of the year, dearly beloved, whenever we make our meditations, we are mindful of the birth from a Virgin Mother of our Lord and Saviour. Whenever our souls are uplifted in the worship of our Maker, whether we sigh in supplication, rejoice in praise, or offer sacrifice, there is nothing which we more frequently or more confidently set our minds upon than the fact that God, the Son of God, begotten of the co-eternal Father, was also born by a human birth. But on this day his Nativity, which is to be adored both in heaven and on earth, is brought before us as at no other time. For today it is as though a new and radiant light is shining forth in the heavens, in such wise that the brightness of this wondrous mystery is perceived even by our senses. And not only do we call to mind what the Angel Gabriel said to the awe-stricken Mary, but in some sort we seem even to be present at that colloquy when she conceived of the Holy Ghost. And we marvel both at the promise made to her, and at her faith in that promise.

℟. Blessed is God's holy Mother, Mary, maiden undefiled. * This day hath she brought forth the Saviour of the world.
℣. Blessed is she that believed; for there is a performance of all those things which were told her from the Lord.
℟. This day hath she brought forth the Saviour of the world.

Lesson V
For as of today the Maker of the world was brought forth from a virginal womb, and he who made all things became the Son of her whom he had made. As of today the Word of God appeared in a garment of flesh, and that which was never beheld by men's eyes can now be even touched by their hands. As of today the shepherds learned from angelic voices that a Saviour was born in substance of our flesh and soul. And this same angelic message was a pattern to the pastors of the Lord's flock to preach the Gospel on this day, and to do it in such wise that we too may say with the heavenly hosts: Glory to God in the highest, and on earth peace to men of good will.

℟. O Mary, how holy and how spotless is thy virginity! I am too dull to praise thee! * For thou hast borne in thy breast Him Whom the heavens cannot contain.
℣. Blessed art thou among women, and blessed is the fruit of thy womb.
℟. For thou hast borne in thy breast Him Whom the heavens cannot contain.

Lesson VI
Verily the greatness of the gift bestowed upon us demandeth a reverence worthy of its splendour. For, as the blessed Apostle saith, we have received, not the spirit of the world, but the Spirit which is of God, that we may know the things that are given us from God. And him we can devoutly worship only by offering to him that which he bestoweth. And in the treasury of the Lord's bounty, what can we find so appropriate to the honour of the present Feast, as that peace which at the birth of the Lord was first proclaimed by the angelic choir? For peace it is which bringeth forth the children of God. Peace it is also which is the nurse of affection, the mother of unity, the rest of the blessed, and our eternal home. Peace it is whose proper work and special benefit is to join unto God those whom it separateth from the world.

℟. Blessed be the womb of the Virgin Mary, which bore the Son of the Eternal Father, and blessed be the paps which give suck to Christ our Lord. * This day hath He been pleased for the salvation of the world to be born of a Virgin.
℣. This day which is breaking is holy; O come, ye Gentiles, and worship the Lord.
℟. This day hath He been pleased for the salvation of the world to be born of a Virgin.
℣. Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, * and to the Holy Ghost.
℟. This day hath He been pleased for the salvation of the world to be born of a Virgin.

Lesson VII
From the Holy Gospel according to Luke
Luke 2:15-20
In that time, the shepherds said one to another: Let us go over to Bethlehem, and let us see this word that is come to pass, which the Lord hath shewed to us. And they came with haste. And so on.

Homily by St. Ambrose, Bishop (of Milan.)
Bk. ii. on Luke ii.
The shepherds came with haste. This is how every one cometh who is really earnestly seeking Christ. The shepherds believed the angel. Wilt not thou believe Father, Son, and Holy Ghost, Angels, Prophets, and Apostles? Here also remark how carefully every word in the Scripture is chosen. They came with haste to see this Word, (as the original text hath it. ) A Word, indeed; the Word of God. He that saw the Lord's Flesh, saw the Word, that is, God the Son.

℟. The Word was made flesh, and dwelt among us. * And we beheld His glory, the glory as of the Only-begotten of the Father, full of grace and truth.
℣. All things were made by Him, and without Him was not anything made.
℟. And we beheld His glory, the glory as of the Only-begotten of the Father, full of grace and truth.

Lesson VIII
Because the office of a shepherd is mean, think not meanly of the example of their faith. Verily, that which is poorest in learning is richest in faith. The Lord seeketh not for schools crowded with wise men, but for a people of a single heart unused to overlay and to disguise what they learn, by vain and superfluous adornments. He will have straightforwardness rather than vain-glory.

℟. How is the King of heaven attended? He that containeth the world is laid in a stable; * Lying in a manger, reigning in heaven.
℣. Unto us is born, this day, in the city of David, a Saviour, Which is Christ the Lord.
℟. Lying in a manger, reigning in heaven.
℣. Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, * and to the Holy Ghost.
℟. Lying in a manger, reigning in heaven.

Lesson IX
Think not meanly either of the shepherds' words. The shepherds strengthen the faith even of Mary; the shepherds lead God's people to His worship. For, all they that heard it, wondered at those things which were told them by the shepherds. But Mary kept all these things and pondered them in her heart. Let us learn the modesty of the Holy Virgin, that modesty of speech as of body, whereby she laid up in her heart the evidences of her faith.

[Te Deum follows]
