Friday of the Third Week after the Octave of Easter
Feria
[Tempora/Pasc3-5]

Lesson I
Lesson from the book of Revelation
Rev 19:1-5
After these things I heard as it were the voice of much people in heaven, saying: Alleluia. Salvation, and glory, and power is to our God. For true and just are his judgments, who hath judged the great harlot which corrupted the earth with her fornication, and hath revenged the blood of his servants, at her hands. And again they said: Alleluia. And her smoke ascendeth for ever and ever. And the four and twenty ancients, and the four living creatures fell down and adored God that sitteth upon the throne, saying: Amen; Alleluia. And a voice came out from the throne, saying: Give praise to our God, all ye his servants; and you that fear him, little and great.

℟. One of the seven Angels talked with me, saying: Come hither, I will show thee the bride, the Lamb's wife. * And I saw Jerusalem descending out of heaven, adorned with her jewels. Alleluia, Alleluia, Alleluia.
℣. And he carried me away in the Spirit to a great and high mountain
℟. And I saw Jerusalem descending out of heaven, adorned with her jewels. Alleluia, Alleluia, Alleluia.

Lesson II
Rev 19:6-10
And I heard as it were the voice of a great multitude, and as the voice of many waters, and as the voice of great thunders, saying, Alleluia: for the Lord our God the Almighty hath reigned. Let us be glad and rejoice, and give glory to him; for the marriage of the Lamb is come, and his wife hath prepared herself. And it is granted to her that she should clothe herself with fine linen, glittering and white. For the fine linen are the justifications of saints. And he said to me: Write: Blessed are they that are called to the marriage supper of the Lamb. And he saith to me: These words of God are true. And I fell down before his feet, to adore him. And he saith to me: See thou do it not: I am thy fellow servant, and of thy brethren, who have the testimony of Jesus. Adore God. For the testimony of Jesus is the spirit of prophecy.

℟. I heard in heaven the voice of many Angels, saying * Fear the Lord, and give glory to Him, and worship Him That made heaven and earth, the sea, and the fountains of waters. Alleluia, Alleluia.
℣. I saw a strong Angel of God fly through the midst of heaven, crying with a loud voice and saying
℟. Fear the Lord, and give glory to Him, and worship Him That made heaven and earth, the sea, and the fountains of waters. Alleluia, Alleluia.
℣. Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, * and to the Holy Ghost.
℟. Fear the Lord, and give glory to Him, and worship Him That made heaven and earth, the sea, and the fountains of waters. Alleluia, Alleluia.

Lesson III
Rev 19:11-16
And I saw heaven opened, and behold a white horse; and he that sat upon him was called faithful and true, and with justice doth he judge and fight. And his eyes were as a flame of fire, and on his head were many diadems, and he had a name written, which no man knoweth but himself. And he was clothed with a garment sprinkled with blood; and his name is called, the Word of God. And the armies that are in heaven followed him on white horses, clothed in fine linen, white and clean. And out of his mouth proceedeth a sharp two edged sword; that with it he may strike the nations. And he shall rule them with a rod of iron; and he treadeth the winepress of the fierceness of the wrath of God the Almighty. And he hath on his garment, and on his thigh written: King of Kings, and Lord of Lords.

[Te Deum follows]
