Fifth Sunday after Easter
Semiduplex
[Tempora/Pasc5-0]

Lesson I
Lesson from the first letter of St. Peter the Apostle
1 Pet 1:1-5
Peter, an apostle of Jesus Christ, to the strangers dispersed through Pontus, Galatia, Cappadocia, Asia, and Bithynia, elect, According to the foreknowledge of God the Father, unto the sanctification of the Spirit, unto obedience and sprinkling of the blood of Jesus Christ: Grace unto you and peace be multiplied. Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, who according to his great mercy hath regenerated us unto a lively hope, by the resurrection of Jesus Christ from the dead, Unto an inheritance incorruptible, and undefiled, and that can not fade, reserved in heaven for you, Who, by the power of God, are kept by faith unto salvation, ready to be revealed in the last time.

℟. If I forget thee, Alleluia, let my right hand forget me. * If I do not remember thee, let my tongue cleave to the roof of my mouth, alleluia, alleluia.
℣. By the rivers of Babylon there we sat down and wept, when we remembered thee, O Zion.
℟. If I do not remember thee, let my tongue cleave to the roof of my mouth, alleluia, alleluia.

Lesson II
1 Pet 1:6-12
Wherein you shall greatly rejoice, if now you must be for a little time made sorrowful in diverse temptations: That the trial of your faith (much more precious than gold which is tried by the fire) may be found unto praise and glory and honour at the appearing of Jesus Christ: Whom having not seen, you love: in whom also now, though you see him not, you believe: and believing shall rejoice with joy unspeakable and glorified; Receiving the end of your faith, even the salvation of your souls. Of which salvation the prophets have inquired and diligently searched, who prophesied of the grace to come in you. Searching what or what manner of time the Spirit of Christ in them did signify: when it foretold those sufferings that are in Christ, and the glories that should follow: To whom it was revealed, that not to themselves, but to you they ministered those things which are now declared to you by them that have preached the gospel to you, the Holy Ghost being sent down from heaven, on whom the angels desire to look.

℟. The waters saw thee, O God, the waters saw thee and they were afraid. * There was a noise as of many waters the clouds sent out a sound, alleluia, alleluia, alleluia.
℣. thy lightnings lightened the world the earth saw it and shook.
℟. There was a noise as of many waters the clouds sent out a sound, alleluia, alleluia, alleluia.

Lesson III
1 Pet 1:13-21
Wherefore having the loins of your mind girt up, being sober, trust perfectly in the grace which is offered you in the revelation of Jesus Christ, As children of obedience, not fashioned according to the former desires of your ignorance: But according to him that hath called you, who is holy, be you also in all manner of conversation holy: Because it is written: You shall be holy, for I am holy. And if you invoke as Father him who, without respect of persons, judgeth according to every one's work: converse in fear during the time of your sojourning here. Knowing that you were not redeemed with corruptible things as gold or silver, from your vain conversation of the tradition of your fathers: But with the precious blood of Christ, as of a lamb unspotted and undefiled, Foreknown indeed before the foundation of the world, but manifested in the last times for you, Who through him are faithful in God, who raised him up from the dead, and hath given him glory, that your faith and hope might be in God.

℟. I will declare thy Name unto my brethren, alleluia. * In the midst of the congregation will I praise thee, alleluia, alleluia.
℣. I will praise thee, O Lord, among the people, and sing unto thee among the nations.
℟. In the midst of the congregation will I praise thee, alleluia, alleluia.
℣. Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, * and to the Holy Ghost.
℟. In the midst of the congregation will I praise thee, alleluia, alleluia.

Lesson IV
From the Book written by St. Ambrose, Bishop of Milan, on belief in the Resurrection.
After middle
Since it was impossible that the Wisdom of God could die, and that which could not die could not rise from the dead, He took to Himself Flesh Which could die, that That Whose nature it was to die might die, and rise again. Neither was it possible that the resurrection of the dead should come otherwise than by man, “for since by man came death, by Man came also the resurrection of the dead.” (1 Cor. xv. 21.) Man He rose since Man He died, the Manhood quickened but the Godhead Quickener. Man then, as touching the Flesh God now, over all things. For now we know Christ no longer after the Flesh, but we owe it to the Flesh that we know Him as “become the First-fruits of them that slept” (1 Cor. xv. 23) “and the First-begotten of the dead” (Apoc. i. 5.)

℟. Bless ye God in the congregations, alleluia. * Even the Lord, ye that are of the fountains of Israel, alleluia, alleluia.
℣. Sing forth the honour of His Name, make His praise glorious.
℟. Even the Lord, ye that are of the fountains of Israel, alleluia, alleluia.

Lesson V
The first-fruits are of the same kind and nature as the other fruits, and they are brought as an offering to God, to win His blessing on the in-gathering, an holy offering made on behalf of all, and as it were the homage of restored nature. Christ then is the First-fruits of them that sleep. But is He the First-fruits of only His own loved ones that fall asleep in Him, and lie as it were untouched by death, wrapt in a sweet slumber Or is He the First-fruits of all the dead? But “as in Adam all die, even so in Christ shall all be made alive.” (1 Cor. xv. 22.) So that, as in Adam were the first-fruits of the death wherein all die, even so in Christ were the first-fruits of the resurrection, wherein all rise again. But let no man be hopeless, neither let it be a grief to the righteous to remember that to rise again will be common to all men, when he looketh for that day wherein the harvest of his life will nobly realise itself. All shall rise again, “but,” as saith the Apostle (23,) “every man in his own order.” The harvest of God's mercy will be for all, but in reward one man shall differ from another.

℟. With my whole heart, alleluia, have I sought thee, alleluia. * O let me not wander from thy commandments, alleluia, alleluia.
℣. Blessed art Thou, O Lord; teach me thy statutes.
℟. O let me not wander from thy commandments, alleluia, alleluia.

Lesson VI
I tell you how grievous an outrage against God it is not to believe in the resurrection. If we shall Is this not rise again, then did Christ die in vain, then is Christ not risen For if [if He rose at all,] He rose for us, and if He had not us to rise for, then He is plainly not risen. In Him the world, in Him the heavens, in Him the earth rose again. For there shall be “a new heaven, and a new earth” (Apoc. xxi. 1.) For Himself He needed not to rise Whom the bands of death held not. For although He died as Man, yet was He free in the netherworld itself. Wouldest thou hear how free “I am as a man that hath no strength, free among the dead” (Ps. Ixxxvii. 6.) O how free Who was able to take up his life again at will (John x. 18), even as it is written that He said “Destroy this Temple, and in three days I will raise it up” (John ii. 19.) O how free Who descended into hell only to redeem others therefrom.

℟. Sing us a song, alleluia. * How shall we sing the Lord's song in a strange land, alleluia, alleluia.
℣. There they that carried us away captive required of us a song.
℟. How shall we sing the Lord's song in a strange land, alleluia, alleluia.
℣. Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, * and to the Holy Ghost.
℟. How shall we sing the Lord's song in a strange land, alleluia, alleluia.

Lesson VII
From the Holy Gospel according to John
John 16:23-30
At that time, Jesus said unto His disciples: Amen, Amen, I say unto you: Whatsoever ye shall ask the Father in My Name, He will give it you. And so on.

Homily by St. Augustine, Bishop of Hippo.
102nd Tract on John.
We have now to consider these words of the Lord “Amen, Amen, I say unto you, Whatsoever ye shall ask the Father in My Name, He will give it you.” It hath already been said in the earlier part of this discourse of the Lord, for the sake of some who ask the Father in Christ's Name and receive not, that whatsoever is asked, which tendeth not to salvation, is not asked in the Name of the Saviour. By the words “In My Name” we must not understand the vocalization of letters and syllables, but the meaning of what is said, the honest and true meaning.

℟. I will sing a new song unto thee, O God, alleluia. * Upon a psaltery of ten strings will I sing praises unto thee, alleluia, alleluia.
℣. Thou art my God, and I will praise thee Thou art my God, and I will exalt thee.
℟. Upon a psaltery of ten strings will I sing praises unto thee, alleluia, alleluia.

Lesson VIII
Therefore, whosoever thinketh of Christ as he ought not to think of the Only Son of God, such an one doth not ask anything in Christ's Name, although he do actually utter letters and syllables to that effect, because by these sounds he meaneth not the Real Christ, but a fancied being who hath no existence except in the speaker's imagination. But on the other hand, whosoever thinketh of Christ as he ought to think, the same asketh in Christ's Name, and receiveth, provided only it be nothing against his own everlasting salvation but if it is good for him to receive, he receiveth. Some things are not given at once, but kept over till a more fitting season. Such is the true interpretation of the words “He will give it you” namely, that those things will be given which are good for them to ask. All the Saints also are heard when they ask for themselves, but not necessarily when they ask for their friends, or their enemies, or others, even as it is written, not simply “He will give it” but “He will give it you.”

℟. It is a good thing to give thanks unto the Lord, alleluia. * And to sing praises, alleluia.
℣. Upon an instrument of ten strings, upon the harp with a solemn sound.
℟. And to sing praises, alleluia.
℣. Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, * and to the Holy Ghost.
℟. And to sing praises, alleluia.

Lesson IX
Hitherto saith the Lord, have ye asked nothing in My Name? “Ask, and ye shall receive, that your joy may be full.” This their joy, whereof He saith that it shall be full, is to be understood not of fleshly but of spiritual joy and when that joy is so great that it can be increased no more, then shall it without doubt be full. Whatsoever therefore we ask for the fulfilling of this joy, (that is, if we thereby mean grace, if we ask for that life which is the really blessed one,) that is a thing which it is meet to ask in Christ's Name. If we ask anything else than this, we ask nothing, although we do actually ask something, because all things are nothing in comparison with this.

[Te Deum follows]
