Thursday of the First Week after the Octave of Easter
Feria
[Tempora/Pasc1-4]

Lesson I
Lesson from the Acts of the Apostles
Acts 5:1-6
But a certain man named Ananias, with Saphira his wife, sold a piece of land, And by fraud kept back part of the price of the land, his wife being privy thereunto: and bringing a certain part of it, laid it at the feet of the apostles. But Peter said: Ananias, why hath Satan tempted thy heart, that thou shouldst lie to the Holy Ghost, and by fraud keep part of the price of the land? Whilst it remained, did it not remain to thee? and after it was sold, was it not in thy power? Why hast thou conceived this thing in thy heart? Thou hast not lied to men, but to God. And Ananias hearing these words, fell down, and gave up the ghost. And there came great fear upon all that heard it. And the young men rising up, removed him, and carrying him out, buried him.

℟. With great power gave the Apostles * Witness of the Resurrection of our Lord Jesus Christ, alleluia, alleluia.
℣. They were all filled with the Holy Ghost, and they spoke the Word of God with boldness.
℟. Witness of the Resurrection of our Lord Jesus Christ, alleluia, alleluia.

Lesson II
Acts 5:7-11
And it was about the space of three hours after, when his wife, not knowing what had happened, came in. And Peter said to her: Tell me, woman, whether you sold the land for so much? And she said: Yea, for so much. And Peter said unto her: Why have you agreed together to tempt the Spirit of the Lord? Behold the feet of them who have buried thy husband are at the door, and they shall carry thee out. Immediately she fell down before his feet, and gave up the ghost. And the young men coming in, found her dead: and carried her out, and buried her by her husband. And there came great fear upon the whole church, and upon all that heard these things._

℟. From the mouth of the wise doth proceed honey, alleluia: the sweetness of honey is under his tongue, alleluia. * His lips drop as the honey-comb, alleluia, alleluia.
℣. Wisdom doth abide in his heart, and out of his mouth cometh understanding.
℟. His lips drop as the honey-comb, alleluia, alleluia.
℣. Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, * and to the Holy Ghost.
℟. His lips drop as the honey-comb, alleluia, alleluia.

Lesson III
Acts 5:12-16
And by the hands of the apostles were many signs and wonders wrought among the people. And they were all with one accord in Solomon's porch. But of the rest no man durst join himself unto them; but the people magnified them. And the multitude of men and women who believed in the Lord, was more increased: Insomuch that they brought forth the sick into the streets, and laid them on beds and couches, that when Peter came, his shadow at the least, might overshadow any of them, and they might be delivered from their infirmities. And there came also together to Jerusalem a multitude out of the neighboring cities, bringing sick persons, and such as were troubled with unclean spirits; who were all healed.

[Te Deum follows]
