Wednesday within the Octave of the Ascension
Semiduplex
[Tempora/Pasc6-3]

Lesson I
Lesson from the second letter of St. John the Apostle
2 John 1:1-5
The ancient to the lady Elect, and her children, whom I love in the truth, and not I only, but also all they that have known the truth, For the sake of the truth which dwelleth in us, and shall be with us for ever. Grace be with you, mercy, and peace from God the Father, and from Christ Jesus the Son of the Father; in truth and charity. I was exceeding glad, that I found of thy children walking in truth, as we have received a commandment from the Father. And now I beseech thee, lady, not as writing a new commandment to thee, but that which we have had from the beginning, that we love one another.

℟. Being seen of them forty days after that He had suffered, and speaking of the kingdom of God. Alleluia. * And while they beheld, He was taken up, and a cloud received Him out of their sight. Alleluia.
℣. And, eating together with them, He commanded them that they should not depart from Jerusalem, but wait for the Promise of the Father.
℟. And while they beheld, He was taken up, and a cloud received Him out of their sight. Alleluia.

Lesson II
2 John 1:6-9
And this is charity, that we walk according to his commandments. For this is the commandment, that, as you have heard from the beginning, you should walk in the same: For many seducers are gone out into the world, who confess not that Jesus Christ is come in the flesh: this is a seducer and an antichrist. Look to yourselves, that you lose not the things which you have wrought: but that you may receive a full reward. Whosoever revolteth, and continueth not in the doctrine of Christ, hath not God. He that continueth in the doctrine, the same hath both the Father and the Son.

℟. The Lord hath set His beauty above the stars; * His loveliness is in the clouds of heaven, and His Name endureth for ever. Alleluia.
℣. His going forth is from the end of the heaven, and His circuit unto the ends of it.
℟. His loveliness is in the clouds of heaven, and His Name endureth for ever. Alleluia.

Lesson III
2 John 1:10-13
If any man come to you, and bring not this doctrine, receive him not into the house nor say to him, God speed you. For he that saith unto him, God speed you, communicateth with his wicked works. Having more things to write unto you, I would not by paper and ink: for I hope that I shall be with you, and speak face to face: that your joy may be full. The children of thy sister Elect salute thee.

℟. Be Thou exalted, O Lord. Alleluia. * In thine Own strength. Alleluia.
℣. O God, Thou hast set thy glory above the heavens.
℟. In thine Own strength. Alleluia.
℣. Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, * and to the Holy Ghost.
℟. In thine Own strength. Alleluia.

Lesson IV
From the Sermons of St. Gregory, Bishop of Nyssa.
Discourse on the Lords Ascension.
The very thought of this day's Festival is great enough in itself, but the Prophet David hath much inflamed our joyful enthusiasm by the Psalms. This noble Prophet hath, as it were, gone out of himself, as though the body were a weight duller than his spirit could bear he joineth company with the Powers of heaven, and telleth what they said when they went with the Lord heavenward, and cried in tones of command to those Angels who work on earth, and by whose heralding the Birth of the Incarnate One had been proclaimed “Lift up your gates, O ye princes, and be ye lift up, ye everlasting doors, and the King of glory shall come in.” (Ps. xxiii. 7, 9.)

℟. My time is come that I should return unto Him That sent Me, saith the Lord. Be not sorrowful, neither let your heart be troubled. * I pray the Father for you, that He may keep you. Alleluia, Alleluia.
℣. If I go not away, the Comforter will not come unto you; where I am ascended, I will send Him unto you.
℟. I pray the Father for you, that He may keep you. Alleluia, Alleluia.

Lesson V
He, Who containeth all things, is everywhere, but for the sake of them which receive Him, He is pleased to make Himself a local Presence which hath bounds. Not only did He become a Man among men, but when conversing among Angels, He alloweth that title also to be given Him. The gatekeepers therefore ask “Who is this King of glory?” and it is answered them that He is “The Lord, strong and mighty, the Lord, mighty in battle,” the Lord, Whose work it had been to fight him who held mankind in bondage, and to “destroy him that had the power of death, that is, the devil” (Heb. ii. 14) that now that dark enemy was trampled down, and man had had won for him freedom and peace.

℟. Let not your heart be troubled; I go unto the Father, and when I am taken from you, I will send unto you, alleluia, * The Spirit of truth, and your heart shall rejoice. Alleluia.
℣. I will pray the Father, and He shall give you another Comforter.
℟. The Spirit of truth, and your heart shall rejoice. Alleluia.

Lesson VI
The keepers run to the gates, and bid the doors unfold, that the Lord may enter in, to take again the glory which He had there among them before. But when they see Him, clad in the likeness of sinful flesh, (Rom.viii. 3,) they know Him not, even Him Who is red in His apparel, because that He hath trodden Alone the winepress of human pain, and the blood is sprinkled upon His garments. Therefore they cry again to their fellows that bear Him company: “Who is this King of glory?” And they answer them no more: “The Lord, strong and mighty, the Lord mighty in battle” but “The Lord of hosts the Lord, Whose Own are become the kingdoms of the world the Lord, Who hath made Himself the Head of all things the Lord, Who hath made all things new (Apoc. xxi. 5.)” He is the King of glory!

℟. When Christ ascended up on high, He led captivity captive, * He gave gifts unto men. Alleluia, Alleluia, Alleluia.
℣. God is gone up with a shout, and the Lord with the sound of a trumpet.
℟. He gave gifts unto men. Alleluia, Alleluia, Alleluia.
℣. Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, * and to the Holy Ghost.
℟. He gave gifts unto men. Alleluia, Alleluia, Alleluia.

Lesson VII
From the Holy Gospel according to Mark
Mark 16:14-20
At that time, Jesus appeared unto the eleven disciples as they sat at meat, and upbraided them with their unbelief and hardness of heart, because they believed not them which had seen Him after He was risen. And so on.

Homily by Pope St. Gregory the Great.
Same as before.
The first question we have to ask is why we read that Angels appeared at the time of the Birth of the Lord, but we read not that they appeared in white apparel whereas, when the Lord ascended into heaven, it is written that the angels which appeared were clad in white. “While they beheld, He was taken up, and a cloud received Him out of their sight. And while they looked steadfastly toward heaven, as He went up, behold, two men stood by them in white apparel,” Acts i. 9,
10. White raiment is an outward sign of solemn inward joy. That the occasion of God-made-Man entering into heaven was a great Festival for Angels, is the reason which we see why angels are specially named as robed in white at His Ascension, and not at His Birth. At the Birth of the Lord the Godhead was manifested veiled under the form of a servant, but at His Ascension the Manhood was seen exalted and white vestments are more apt to exaltation than humiliation.

℟. I will pray the Father, and He shall give you another Comforter, * That He may abide with you for ever, even the Spirit of truth. Alleluia.
℣. For if I go not away, the Comforter will not come unto you; but if I depart, I will send Him unto you.
℟. That He may abide with you for ever, even the Spirit of truth. Alleluia.

Lesson VIII
Therefore were the angels bound to appear in white apparel at the Ascension at His Birth He Who thought it not robbery to be equal with God, was seen in the form in which He had humbled Himself; at His Ascension the Manhood Which He had taken into God was seen glorified. Again, dearly beloved brethren, we must remember today, how that Christ hath “blotted out the hand-writing that was against us,” and reversed the sentence which doomed us to corruption. That same nature to which it was said, “Dust thou art, and unto dust shalt thou return,” that same nature is His Who hath this day ascended up into heaven. It is because of this up-lifting of our flesh that blessed Job, by a figure, calleth the Lord a bird. The Jews could not understand the Mystery of the Ascension, and in view of this their unbelief, blessed Job said mystically “He knew not the path of the bird.”

℟. Thou makest the clouds the chariot, O Lord, * Thou walkest upon the wings of the wind. Alleluia.
℣. Thou art clothed with honour and majesty, covering thyself with light as with a garment;
℟. Thou walkest upon the wings of the wind. Alleluia.
℣. Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, * and to the Holy Ghost.
℟. Thou walkest upon the wings of the wind. Alleluia.

Lesson IX
The name of a bird is well given to the Lord, Who bodily soared up into heaven. And the path of that Bird knoweth no man, who believeth not in the Ascension into heaven. It is of this glorious occasion that the Psalmist saith: “Who hast set thy glory above the heavens,” (viii. 2,) and again “God is gone up with a shout, and the Lord with the sound of a trumpet,” (xlvi. 6.) And yet again he saith “Thou hast ascended on high, Thou hast led captivity captive,” (lxvii. 19.) “When Christ ascended up on high, He led captivity captive,” (Eph. iv. 8,) because by His Own incorruptibility He swallowed up our corruptibility. “He gave gifts unto men,” because by sending the Spirit from above, He gave “to one, the word of wisdom to another, the word of knowledge to another, the working of miracles to another, the gifts of healing; to another, diverse kinds of tongues to another, the interpretation of tongues,” (1 Cor. xii. 8-10.)

[Te Deum follows]
