Friday after the Octave of the Ascension
Semiduplex
[Tempora/Pasc6-5]

Lesson I
Lesson from the third letter of St. John the Apostle
3 John 1:1-4
The ancient to the dearly beloved Gaius, whom I love in truth. Dearly beloved, concerning all things I make it my prayer that thou mayest proceed prosperously, and fare well as thy soul doth prosperously. I was exceedingly glad when the brethren came and gave testimony to the truth in thee, even as thou walkest in the truth. I have no greater grace than this, to hear that my children walk in truth.

℟. Being seen of them forty days after that He had suffered, and speaking of the kingdom of God. Alleluia. * And while they beheld, He was taken up, and a cloud received Him out of their sight. Alleluia.
℣. And, eating together with them, He commanded them that they should not depart from Jerusalem, but wait for the Promise of the Father.
℟. And while they beheld, He was taken up, and a cloud received Him out of their sight. Alleluia.

Lesson II
3 John 1:5-10
Dearly beloved, thou dost faithfully whatever thou dost for the brethren, and that for strangers, Who have given testimony to thy charity in the sight of the church: whom thou shalt do well to bring forward on their way in a manner worthy of God. Because, for his name they went out, taking nothing of the Gentiles. We therefore ought to receive such, that we may be fellow helpers of the truth. I had written perhaps to the church: but Diotrephes, who loveth to have the pre-eminence among them, doth not receive us. For this cause, if I come, I will advertise his works which he doth, with malicious words prating against us. And as if these things were not enough for him, neither doth he himself receive the brethren, and them that do receive them he forbiddeth, and casteth out of the church.

℟. The Lord hath set His beauty above the stars; * His loveliness is in the clouds of heaven, and His Name endureth for ever. Alleluia.
℣. His going forth is from the end of the heaven, and His circuit unto the ends of it.
℟. His loveliness is in the clouds of heaven, and His Name endureth for ever. Alleluia.

Lesson III
3 John 1:11-14
Dearly beloved, follow not that which is evil, but that which is good. He that doth good, is of God: he that doth evil, hath not seen God. To Demetrius testimony is given by all, and by the truth itself, yea and we also give testimony: and thou knowest that our testimony is true. I had many things to write unto thee: but I would not by ink and pen write to thee. But I hope speedily to see thee, and we will speak mouth to mouth. Peace be to thee. Our friends salute thee. Salute the friends by name.

℟. Be Thou exalted, O Lord. Alleluia. * In thine Own strength. Alleluia.
℣. O God, Thou hast set thy glory above the heavens.
℟. In thine Own strength. Alleluia.
℣. Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, * and to the Holy Ghost.
℟. In thine Own strength. Alleluia.

Lesson IV
From the Sermons of St. Augustine, Bishop of Hippo.
Same as before.
Dearly beloved brethren, if the Flesh wherein our Saviour trampled down the devil had not been of our nature, He would indeed have exercised Himself, but He would not have conquered for us. If the Body wherein He rose from the grave had not been of our nature, His Resurrection would not have affected our state. Whoso asserteth this, that Christ hath but one nature, he doth not understand why Christ took Flesh upon Him, he confoundeth the order, and maketh void the benefit of the Incarnation. If the Flesh wherein our Healer came was not sharer in human | nature, then all that by His Birth He took from man would have been degradation. O may such dangerous! dreams be far from our thoughts What He took is ours, what He gave is His. I testify that the first Adam, who fell, and the second Adam, Who rose from the dead, are both of the same human nature that I am of. I testify that What lay in the grave, and What ascended into heaven, is of the same human nature that I am of.

℟. My time is come that I should return unto Him That sent Me, saith the Lord. Be not sorrowful, neither let your heart be troubled. * I pray the Father for you, that He may keep you. Alleluia, Alleluia.
℣. If I go not away, the Comforter will not come unto you; where I am ascended, I will send Him unto you.
℟. I pray the Father for you, that He may keep you. Alleluia, Alleluia.

Lesson V
It was therefore just because His Body was of our nature, that Christ's Death hath quickened us, His Resurrection raised us up, His Ascension sanctified us. It was just because His Body was of our nature, that His Presence in the heavenly kingdoms is a pledge that we also shall one day be there. Let us therefore strive, dearly beloved brethren, since the Lord hath on this day gone up on high in a Body of our nature, ourselves, as far as we can, to ascend thither in hope, to follow Him with our heart. Let us ascend to Him in love, and speed keeping pace with love, even by our very sins and passions. If every one of us would strive to get above them, and accustom himself to tread on them, he might make of even them a stepping-stone to mount to higher things. Such things lift us up if they are underneath us.

℟. Let not your heart be troubled; I go unto the Father, and when I am taken from you, I will send unto you, alleluia, * The Spirit of truth, and your heart shall rejoice. Alleluia.
℣. I will pray the Father, and He shall give you another Comforter.
℟. The Spirit of truth, and your heart shall rejoice. Alleluia.

Lesson VI
We make our vices a ladder, if we tread them down. With the Author of goodness there ascended no spite with the Son of the Virgin, no lust or sensuality. I say vices do not follow to heaven the Father of perfection, sin the Holy One of God, neither weakness nor disease the Divine Healer. If therefore we would enter into the kingdom of that Healer, we must first take heed to our sores. We must so order and guard in us the mutual relations of our soul and body, that the soul, the nobler part of man, may not be dragged down to hell by her grovelling companion, but may rather, being herself of a nature more glorious, bear with her to heaven at the last a sanctified body, by the help of Him Who liveth and reigneth for ever and ever. Amen.

℟. When Christ ascended up on high, He led captivity captive, * He gave gifts unto men. Alleluia, Alleluia, Alleluia.
℣. God is gone up with a shout, and the Lord with the sound of a trumpet.
℟. He gave gifts unto men. Alleluia, Alleluia, Alleluia.
℣. Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, * and to the Holy Ghost.
℟. He gave gifts unto men. Alleluia, Alleluia, Alleluia.

Lesson VII
From the Holy Gospel according to John
John 15:26-27; 16:1-4
At that time, Jesus said unto His disciples: When the Comforter is come, whom I will send unto you from the Father, even the Spirit of truth, Which proceedeth from the Father, He shall testify of Me. And so on.

Homily by St. Augustine, Bishop of Hippo.
92nd Tract on John.
Upon the day of Pentecost the Holy Ghost came down upon a congregation of an hundred and twenty men, among whom were all the Apostles. These men, after they had been filled with the Spirit, began to speak with the tongues of all nations, and many of the bystanders, amazed at the marvel, when they saw in the discourse of Peter, how great and how Divine a witness was borne to the fact that the Christ, Whom they had murdered, and Whom they reckoned among the dead, had risen again and was alive, many of these bystanders were pricked in their heart (Acts ii. 37) and were converted. They received pardon from that noble Blood, Which they had so sacrilegiously and so brutally shed, seeing that that Blood had redeemed even Its Own out-pourers.

℟. I will pray the Father, and He shall give you another Comforter, * That He may abide with you for ever, even the Spirit of truth. Alleluia.
℣. For if I go not away, the Comforter will not come unto you; but if I depart, I will send Him unto you.
℟. That He may abide with you for ever, even the Spirit of truth. Alleluia.

Lesson VIII
The Blood of Christ “Which is shed for many for the remission of sins” was so effectually shed, that It could remit even the very sin that shed It. Toward this looked the Lord when He said “They hated Me without a cause but when the Comforter is come, Whom I will send unto you from the Father, He shall testify of Me.” This was as though He had said They have hated Me and slain Me while they see Me, but when they shall see Me no more, the Comforter shall bear such testimony of Me, as will compel them to believe in Me. “And ye also,” saith He, “shall bear witness, because ye have been with Me from the beginning,” the Holy Ghost shall bear witness, and ye also shall bear witness. “Because ye have been with Me from the beginning,” ye are able to speak that ye do know, (John iii. 11,) which ye do not now, while as yet the fulness of the Spirit is not come upon you.

℟. For if I go not away, the Comforter will not come unto you; but if I depart, I will send Him unto you; * And when He is come, He will guide you into all truth. Alleluia.
℣. For He shall not speak of Himself; but whatsoever He shall hear, that shall He speak and He will show you things to come.
℟. And when He is come, He will guide you into all truth. Alleluia.
℣. Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, * and to the Holy Ghost.
℟. And when He is come, He will guide you into all truth. Alleluia.

Lesson IX
He shall testify of Me and ye also shall bear witness when the love of God is shed abroad in your hearts by the Holy Ghost Which shall be given unto you, and maketh you not ashamed to lift up your testimony. This love had not been so shed abroad in Peter's heart when he was frightened by the questioning of the maid-servant, and could not bear witness to the truth, but brake his promise, and was driven by strong fear to deny Christ thrice. “There is no such fear in love; but perfect love casteth out fear.” Before the Passion of the Lord, Peter's slavish fear was questioned by a bondwoman but after the Resurrection of the Lord, his free love was asked by the very Prince of freedom, and therefore the first questioning shook him, but under the second he was at peace at the first he denied Him Whom he had loved at the second he loved Him Whom he had denied. But, even so, his love was weak and narrow, until the Holy Ghost had strengthened and widened it.

[Te Deum follows]
