Tuesday in Rogationtide
Feria
[Tempora/Pasc5-2]

Lesson I
Lesson from the first letter of St. Peter the Apostle
1 Pet 4:1-7
Christ therefore having suffered in the flesh, be you also armed with the same thought: for he that hath suffered in the flesh, hath ceased from sins: That now he may live the rest of his time in the flesh, not after the desires of men, but according to the will of God. For the time past is sufficient to have fulfilled the will of the Gentiles, for them who have walked in riotousness, lusts, excess of wine, revellings, banquetings, and unlawful worshipping of idols. Wherein they think it strange, that you run not with them into the same confusion of riotousness, speaking evil of you. Who shall render account to him, who is ready to judge the living and the dead. For, for this cause was the gospel preached also to the dead: that they might be judged indeed according to men, in the flesh; but may live according to God, in the Spirit. But the end of all is at hand.

℟. Bless ye God in the congregations, alleluia. * Even the Lord, ye that are of the fountains of Israel, alleluia, alleluia.
℣. Sing forth the honour of His Name, make His praise glorious.
℟. Even the Lord, ye that are of the fountains of Israel, alleluia, alleluia.

Lesson II
1 Pet 4:7-11
Be prudent therefore, and watch in prayers. But before all things have a constant mutual charity among yourselves: for charity covereth a multitude of sins. Using hospitality one towards another, without murmuring, As every man hath received grace, ministering the same one to another: as good stewards of the manifold grace of God. If any man speak, let him speak, as the words of God. If any man minister, let him do it, as of the power, which God administereth: that in all things God may be honoured through Jesus Christ: to whom is glory and empire for ever and ever. Amen.

℟. With my whole heart, alleluia, have I sought thee, alleluia. * O let me not wander from thy commandments. Alleluia, Alleluia.
℣. Blessed art Thou, O Lord teach me thy statutes.
℟. O let me not wander from thy commandments. Alleluia, Alleluia.
℣. Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, * and to the Holy Ghost.
℟. O let me not wander from thy commandments. Alleluia, Alleluia.

Lesson III
1 Pet 4:12-17
Dearly beloved, think not strange the burning heat which is to try you, as if some new thing happened to you; But if you partake of the sufferings of Christ, rejoice that when his glory shall be revealed, you may also be glad with exceeding joy. If you be reproached for the name of Christ, you shall be blessed: for that which is of the honour, glory, and power of God, and that which is his Spirit, resteth upon you. But let none of you suffer as a murderer, or a thief, or a railer, or a coveter of other men's things. But if as a Christian, let him not be ashamed, but let him glorify God in that name. For the time is, that judgment should begin at the house of God.

[Te Deum follows]
