Easter Sunday
Duplex I classis cum Octava privilegiata I
[Tempora/Pasc0-0]

Lesson I
Continuation of the Holy Gospel according to Mark
Mark 16:1-7
And when the sabbath was past, Mary Magdalen, and Mary the mother of James, and Salome, bought sweet spices, that coming, they might anoint Jesus. And what follows.

Homily of St. Gregory, Pope
21st Homily on the Gospels
Dearly beloved brethren, ye have heard the deed of the holy women which had followed the Lord; how that they brought sweet spices to His sepulchre, and, now that He was dead, having loved Him while He was yet alive, they followed Him with careful tenderness still. But the deed of these holy women doth point to somewhat which must needs be done in the holy Church. And it behoveth us well to give ear to what they did, that we may afterward consider with ourselves what we must do likewise after their example. We also, who believe in Him That was dead, do come to His sepulchre bearing sweet spices, when we seek the Lord with the savour of good living, and the fragrant report of good works. Those women, when they brought their spices, saw a vision of Angels, and, in sooth, those souls whose godly desires do move them to seek the Lord with the savour of good lives, do see the countrymen of our Fatherland which is above.

℟. The Angel of the Lord descended from heaven, and came and rolled back the stone, and sat upon it, and said unto the women: * Fear not ye; for I know that ye seek Him That was crucified: He is risen already. Come, see the place where the Lord was laid, alleluia.
℣. And entering into the sepulchre, they saw a young man sitting on the right side, clothed in a long white garment, and they were affrighted; and he saith unto them:
℟. Fear not ye: for I know that ye seek Him That was crucified: He is risen already; come, see the place where the Lord was laid, alleluia.
℣. Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, * and to the Holy Ghost.
℟. The Angel of the Lord descended from heaven, and came and rolled back the stone and sat upon it, and said unto the women: Fear not ye: for I know that ye seek Him That was crucified: He is risen already: Come, see the place where the Lord was laid, alleluia.

Lesson II
It behoveth us to mark what this meaneth, that they saw the Angel sitting on the right side. For what signifieth the left, but this life which now is? or the right, but life everlasting? Whence also it is written in the Song of Songs (ii. 6): His left hand is under my head, and His right hand doth embrace me. Since, therefore, our Redeemer had passed from the corruption of this life which now is, the Angel which told that His undying life was come, sat, as became him, on the right side. They saw him clothed in a white garment, for he was herald of the joy of this our great solemnity, and the glistering whiteness of his raiment told of the brightness of this holy Festival of ours. Of ours, said I? or of his? But if we will speak the truth, we must acknowledge that it is both his and ours. The Again-rising of our Redeemer is a Festival of gladness for us, for us it biddeth know that we shall not die for ever; and for Angels also it is a festival of gladness, for it biddeth them know that we are called to fulfill their number in heaven.

℟. When the Sabbath was passed, Mary Magdalene, and Mary the mother of James, and Salome, had bought sweet spices, * That they might come and anoint Jesus, alleluia, alleluia.
℣. And very early in the morning, the first day of the week, they came unto the sepulchre, at the rising of the sun.
℟. That they might come and anoint Jesus, alleluia, alleluia.
℣. Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, * and to the Holy Ghost.
℟. That they might come and anoint Jesus, alleluia, alleluia.

Lesson III
See this glad Festival then, which is both his and ours, the Angel appeared in white raiment. For as the Lord, rising again from the dead, leadeth us unto the mansions above, He repaireth the breaches of the heavenly Fatherland. But what meaneth this, that the Angel said unto the women which came to the sepulchre: Fear not? Is it not as though he had said openly: Let them fear which love not the coming of the heavenly countrymen; let them be afraid who are so laden by fleshly lusts, that they have lost all hope ever to be joined to their company. But as for you, why fear ye, who, when ye see us, see but your fellow countrymen? Hence also Matthew, writing of the guise of the Angel, saith (xxviii. 3): His countenance was like lightning, and His raiment white as snow. The lightning speaketh of fear and great dread, the snow of the soft brilliancy of rejoicing.

[Te Deum follows]
