Second Sunday after Easter
Semiduplex
[Tempora/Pasc2-0]

Lesson I
Lesson from the Acts of the Apostles
Acts 13:13-20
Now when Paul and they that were with him had sailed from Paphos, they came to Perge in Pamphylia. And John departing from them, returned to Jerusalem. But they passing through Perge, came to Antioch in Pisidia: and entering into the synagogue on the sabbath day, they sat down. And after the reading of the law and the prophets, the rulers of the synagogue sent to them, saying: Ye men, brethren, if you have any word of exhortation to make to the people, speak. Then Paul rising up, and with his hand bespeaking silence, said: Ye men of Israel, and you that fear God, give ear. The God of the people of Israel chose our fathers, and exalted the people when they were sojourners in the land of Egypt, and with an high arm brought them out from thence, And for the space of forty years endured their manners in the desert. And destroying seven nations in the land of Chanaan, divided their land among them, by lot, As it were, after four hundred and fifty years: and after these things, he gave unto them judges, until Samuel the prophet.

℟. With great power gave the Apostles * Witness of the Resurrection of our Lord Jesus Christ, alleluia, alleluia.
℣. They were all filled with the Holy Ghost, and they spoke the Word of God with boldness.
℟. Witness of the Resurrection of our Lord Jesus Christ, alleluia, alleluia.

Lesson II
Acts 13:21-25
And after that they desired a king: and God gave them Saul the son of Cis, a man of the tribe of Benjamin, forty years. And when he had removed him, he raised them up David to be king: to whom giving testimony, he said: I have found David, the son of Jesse, a man according to my own heart, who shall do all my wills. Of this man's seed God according to his promise, hath raised up to Israel a Saviour, Jesus: John first preaching, before his coming, the baptism of penance to all the people of Israel. And when John was fulfilling his course, he said: I am not he, whom you think me to be: but behold, there cometh one after me, whose shoes of his feet I am not worthy to loose.

℟. From the mouth of the wise doth proceed honey, alleluia: the sweetness of honey is under his tongue, alleluia. * His lips drop as the honey-comb, alleluia, alleluia.
℣. Wisdom doth abide in his heart, and out of his mouth cometh understanding.
℟. His lips drop as the honey-comb, alleluia, alleluia.

Lesson III
Acts 13:26-33
Men, brethren, children of the stock of Abraham, and whosoever among you fear God, to you the word of this salvation is sent. For they that inhabited Jerusalem, and the rulers thereof, not knowing him, nor the voices of the prophets, which are read every sabbath, judging him have fulfilled them. And finding no cause of death in him, they desired of Pilate, that they might kill him. And when they had fulfilled all things that were written of him, taking him down from the tree, they laid him in a sepulchre. But God raised him up from the dead the third day: Who was seen for many days, by them who came up with him from Galilee to Jerusalem, who to this present are his witnesses to the people. And we declare unto you, that the promise which was made to our fathers, This same God hath fulfilled to our children, raising up Jesus, as in the second psalm also is written: Thou art my Son, this day have I begotten thee.

℟. Behold, the Lion of the tribe of Judah, the Root of David, hath prevailed to open the Book, and to loose the seven seals thereof. * Alleluia, alleluia, alleluia.
℣. Worthy is the Lamb That was slain to receive power, and riches, in wisdom, and strength, and honour, and glory, and blessing.
℟. Alleluia, alleluia, alleluia.
℣. Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, * and to the Holy Ghost.
℟. Alleluia, alleluia, alleluia.

Lesson IV
From the Sermons of Pope St. Leo (the Great)
1st for the Lord's Ascension
Dearly beloved brethren, the days which passed between the Resurrection and the Ascension of the Lord, wore not idly by, but in them were established great Sacraments, and great Mysteries were revealed. In them was abolished the terror of that fearful death, and it was shown that not the soul only, but the body also, will not die eternally. In them the breathing of the Lord on His Apostles shed upon them the Holy Ghost, and the Blessed Apostle Peter, being given the keys of the kingdom of heaven, was chosen out of the rest to receive the chief care of the Lord's fold.

℟. I am the True Vine, and ye are the branches; * He that abideth in Me, and I in him, the same bringeth forth much fruit, alleluia, alleluia.
℣. As the Father hath loved Me, so have I loved you.
℟. He that abideth in Me, and I in him, the same bringeth forth much fruit, alleluia, alleluia.

Lesson V
It was during those days, that as two of His disciples were walking together, the Lord Himself joined them, and made Himself One of three companions. Then that, to clear away all shadow of doubt from our mind, He rebuked the slowness of such as still feared and trembled. Their hearts enlightened by faith, caught the flame; and, whereas they had afore been cold, they glowed again as the Lord opened to them the Scriptures. In the breaking of bread their eyes were opened, and they knew Him. And, O, how much happier were they with their eyes opened, and gazing upon the glorification of our nature in His Person, than were the first father and mother of our race, upon whom their own transgression had brought shame!

℟. After that our Lord Jesus was risen again, He came and stood in the midst of His disciples, and said unto them: * Peace be unto you, alleluia. Then were the disciples glad, when they saw the Lord, alleluia.
℣. The first day of the week, when the doors were shut where the disciples were assembled, came Jesus, and stood in the midst, and said unto them:
℟. Peace be unto you, alleluia. Then were the disciples glad, when they saw the Lord, alleluia.

Lesson VI
Amid these and other miracles, while the disciples were still troubled with fearful thoughts, the Lord manifested Himself in the midst of them, and said: Peace be unto you. And lest their reason should be deceived by the vain imaginations which lurked in their hearts, (for they thought that What they saw was a spirit, and not Flesh,) He rebuked thoughts so inconsistent with the truth; and pointed out to the eyes of the doubters the marks of crucifixion which still remained in His Hands and His Feet, and bade them handle Him more closely. Those open Wounds made by the nails and spear in His Body remain ever open to close the wounds in unbelievers' hearts: that we may hold, not with doubtful faith, but with most firm and absolute knowledge, that the Manhood Which lay in the grave is the Same Which now sitteth at the right hand of God the Father.

℟. Purge out the old leaven, that ye may be new dough: for even Christ our Passover is sacrificed for us: * Therefore let us keep the Feast, in the Lord, alleluia.
℣. He died for our offences, and rose again for our justification.
℟. Therefore let us keep the Feast, in the Lord, alleluia.
℣. Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, * and to the Holy Ghost.
℟. Therefore let us keep the Feast, in the Lord, alleluia.

Lesson VII
From the Holy Gospel according to John
John 10:11-16
At that time, Jesus said unto the Pharisees: I am the Good Shepherd. The Good Shepherd giveth His life for His sheep. And so on.

Homily by Pope St. Gregory (the Great.)
14th on the Gospels
Dearly beloved brethren, ye have heard from the Holy Gospel what is at once your instruction, and our danger. Behold, how He Who, not by the varying gifts of nature, but of the very essence of His being, is Good, behold how He saith: I am the Good Shepherd. And then He saith what is the character of His goodness, even of that goodness of His which we must strive to copy: The Good Shepherd giveth His life for the Sheep. As He had foretold, even so did He; as He had commanded, so gave He example. The Good Shepherd gave His life for the sheep, and made His Own Body and His Own Blood to be our Sacramental Food, pasturing upon His Own Flesh the sheep whom He had bought.

℟. Knowing that Christ rising again from the dead, dieth now no more, death shall no more have dominion over him. For in that he died to sin, he died once; * In that he liveth, he liveth unto God, alleluia, alleluia.
℣. He died once for the sins, and he rose for our justification.
℟. In that he liveth, he liveth unto God, alleluia, alleluia.

Lesson VIII
He, by despising death, hath shown us how to do the like; He hath set before us the mould wherein it behoveth us to be cast. Our first duty is, freely and tenderly to spend our outward things for His sheep, but lastly, if need be, to serve the same by our death also. From the light offering of the first, we go on to the stern offering of the last, and, if we be ready to give our life for the sheep, why should we scruple to give our substance, seeing how much more is the life than meat? (Matth. vi. 25.)

℟. The Good Shepherd, Who laid down His life for the sheep, yea, Who was contented even to die for His flock, the Good Shepherd is risen again. * Alleluia, alleluia, alleluia.
℣. For even Christ our Passover is sacrificed for us.
℟. Alleluia, alleluia, alleluia.
℣. Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, * and to the Holy Ghost.
℟. Alleluia, alleluia, alleluia.

Lesson IX
And some there be which love the things of this world better than they love the sheep; and such as they deserve no longer to be called shepherds. These are they of whom it is written: But he that is an hireling, and not the shepherd, whose own the sheep are not, seeth the wolf coming, and leaveth the sheep, and fleeth (12.) He is not a shepherd but an hireling which feedeth the Lord's sheep, not because he loveth their souls, but because he doth gain earthly wealth thereby. He that taketh a shepherd's place, but seeketh not gain of souls, that same is but an hireling; such an one is ever ready for creature comforts, he loveth his pre-eminence, he groweth sleek upon his income, and he liketh well to see men bow down to him.

[Te Deum follows]
