Wednesday of the Fourth Week after the Octave of Easter
Feria
[Tempora/Pasc4-3]

Lesson I
Lesson from the letter of St. James the Apostle
Jas 2:14-17
What shall it profit, my brethren, if a man say he hath faith, but hath not works? Shall faith be able to save him? And if a brother or sister be naked, and want daily food: And one of you say to them: Go in peace, be ye warmed and filled; yet give them not those things that are necessary for the body, what shall it profit? So faith also, if it have not works, is dead in itself.

℟. I will sing a new song unto thee, O God, alleluia. * Upon a psaltery of ten strings will I sing praises unto thee, alleluia, alleluia.
℣. Thou art my God, and I will praise thee Thou art my God, and I will exalt thee.
℟. Upon a psaltery of ten strings will I sing praises unto thee, alleluia, alleluia.

Lesson II
Jas 2:18-22
But some man will say: Thou hast faith, and I have works: show me thy faith without works; and I will show thee, by works, my faith. Thou believest that there is one God. Thou dost well: the devils also believe and tremble. But wilt thou know, O vain man, that faith without works is dead? Was not Abraham our father justified by works, offering up Isaac his son upon the altar? Seest thou, that faith did co-operate with his works; and by works faith was made perfect?

℟. It is a good thing to give thanks unto the Lord, alleluia. * And to sing praises, alleluia.
℣. Upon an instrument of ten strings, upon the harp with a solemn sound.
℟. And to sing praises, alleluia.
℣. Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, * and to the Holy Ghost.
℟. And to sing praises, alleluia.

Lesson III
Jas 2:23-26
And the scripture was fulfilled, saying: Abraham believed God, and it was reputed to him to justice, and he was called the friend of God. Do you see that by works a man is justified; and not by faith only? And in like manner also Rahab the harlot, was not she justified by works, receiving the messengers, and sending them out another way? For even as the body without the spirit is dead; so also faith without works is dead.

[Te Deum follows]
