Vigil of Pentecost
Semiduplex I classis
[Tempora/Pasc6-6]

Lesson I
Beginning of the letter of the blessed Apostle Jude
Jude 1:1-4
Jude, the servant of Jesus Christ, and brother of James: to them that are beloved in God the Father, and preserved in Jesus Christ, and called. Mercy unto you, and peace, and charity be fulfilled. Dearly beloved, taking all care to write unto you concerning your common salvation, I was under a necessity to write unto you: to beseech you to contend earnestly for the faith once delivered to the saints. For certain men are secretly entered in, (who were written of long ago unto this judgment,) ungodly men, turning the grace of our Lord God into riotousness, and denying the only sovereign Ruler, and our Lord Jesus Christ.

℟. Being seen of them forty days after that He had suffered, and speaking of the kingdom of God. Alleluia. * And while they beheld, He was taken up, and a cloud received Him out of their sight. Alleluia.
℣. And, eating together with them, He commanded them that they should not depart from Jerusalem, but wait for the Promise of the Father.
℟. And while they beheld, He was taken up, and a cloud received Him out of their sight. Alleluia.

Lesson II
Jude 1:5-8
I will therefore admonish you, though ye once knew all things, that Jesus, having saved the people out of the land of Egypt, did afterwards destroy them that believed not: And the angels who kept not their principality, but forsook their own habitation, he hath reserved under darkness in everlasting chains, unto the judgment of the great day. As Sodom and Gomorrha, and the neighbouring cities, in like manner, having given themselves to fornication, and going after other flesh, were made an example, suffering the punishment of eternal fire. In like manner these men also defile the flesh, and despise dominion, and blaspheme majesty.

℟. The Lord hath set His beauty above the stars; * His loveliness is in the clouds of heaven, and His Name endureth for ever. Alleluia.
℣. His going forth is from the end of the heaven, and His circuit unto the ends of it.
℟. His loveliness is in the clouds of heaven, and His Name endureth for ever. Alleluia.

Lesson III
Jude 1:9-13
When Michael the archangel, disputing with the devil, contended about the body of Moses, he durst not bring against him the judgment of railing speech, but said: The Lord command thee. But these men blaspheme whatever things they know not: and what things soever they naturally know, like dumb beasts, in these they are corrupted. Woe unto them, for they have gone in the way of Cain: and after the error of Balaam they have for reward poured out themselves, and have perished in the contradiction of Core. These are spots in their banquets, feasting together without fear, feeding themselves, clouds without water, which are carried about by winds, trees of the autumn, unfruitful, twice dead, plucked up by the roots, Raging waves of the sea, foaming out their own confusion; wandering stars, to whom the storm of darkness is reserved for ever.

℟. Be Thou exalted, O Lord. Alleluia. * In thine Own strength. Alleluia.
℣. O God, Thou hast set thy glory above the heavens.
℟. In thine Own strength. Alleluia.
℣. Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, * and to the Holy Ghost.
℟. In thine Own strength. Alleluia.

Lesson IV
From the Treatise upon the Creed, addressed to Catechumens by St. Augustine, Bishop of Hippo
Bk. iv. ch. I. tom. 9
We are yet the unborn offspring of a great Mother. Our Holy Mother the Church hath by the most sacred sign of the Cross received you into her womb, and from thence she is now just about to bring you forth, as she hath already brought forth your brethren, with thrills of spiritual joy. But until, through the washing of regeneration, she bringeth you forth into true light, she feedeth you in her womb with such food as becometh your condition, and in gladness matureth her children for the glad moment of her delivery. This Mother is not stricken by the doom of Eve, to bring forth children in sorrow, and they themselves oftenertimes weeping than laughing. Rather doth your spiritual Mother annul the sentence of your earthly Eve, by disobedience, endowed her offspring with death the Church, by obedience, giveth them newness of life. All the mystic prayers and ceremonies which have been and are still being performed over you by the ministry of the servants of God, exorcisms, prayers, spiritual songs, onbreathings, haircloth, prostrations, baring of the feet, the dread which ye feel, albeit so safe, all these things, I say unto you, are the nourishment which ye are ever. drawing from your Mother while yet ye are in her womb, that at the baptismal birth she may be able to present you strong and laughing babes unto Christ.

℟. My time is come that I should return unto Him That sent Me, saith the Lord. Be not sorrowful, neither let your heart be troubled. * I pray the Father for you, that He may keep you. Alleluia, Alleluia.
℣. If I go not away, the Comforter will not come unto you; where I am ascended, I will send Him unto you.
℟. I pray the Father for you, that He may keep you. Alleluia, Alleluia.

Lesson V
We have also received the Creed, which is the shield of the travailing Mother against the venom of the dragon. In the Apocalypse of the Apostle John (xii. 4) it is written “And the dragon stood before the woman which was ready to be delivered, for to devour her child as soon as it was born.” That this dragon is the devil ye all know. Ye know likewise that by the woman is signified the Virgin Mary, who, herself a Virgin, bore our Virgin Head, and who is revealed unto us as a type of the Holy Church, in that, even as Mary, though she bore a Son, remained a Virgin, so the Church doth in all times give birth to all her members, and yet is ever presented a chaste virgin to Christ. I have undertaken, with the help of the Lord, to expound every clause of the Creed, that I may bring home to your understandings what each containeth. Your hearts are ready, for the enemy hath been shut out of your hearts.

℟. Let not your heart be troubled; I go unto the Father, and when I am taken from you, I will send unto you, alleluia, * The Spirit of truth, and your heart shall rejoice. Alleluia.
℣. I will pray the Father, and He shall give you another Comforter.
℟. The Spirit of truth, and your heart shall rejoice. Alleluia.

Lesson VI
We have made profession of renouncing the enemy. At the moment of that profession it was not before men only, but in the presence of God and His Angels that ye said: “I do renounce him.” Renounce him, not only in your words, but in your ways not only with your voices, but with your lives not only with your lips, but in your works. Know ye well that the wrestling which ye have undertaken is a strife with an enemy who is subtle, and old, and patient now that ye have once renounced him, let him never again find in you his works never again give him the right to bring you into bondage. O Christian thou wilt be caught and exposed, if thou dost one thing and professest another, if thou art faithful in name, and makest it to be evident by thy works that thou hast broken the faith pledged by this promise if some while thou goest into a church to pray, and anon to the shows to join in applauding obscene representations. What hast thou to do any more with the pomps of the devil, which thou hast renounced?

℟. When Christ ascended up on high, He led captivity captive, * He gave gifts unto men. Alleluia, Alleluia, Alleluia.
℣. God is gone up with a shout, and the Lord with the sound of a trumpet.
℟. He gave gifts unto men. Alleluia, Alleluia, Alleluia.
℣. Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, * and to the Holy Ghost.
℟. He gave gifts unto men. Alleluia, Alleluia, Alleluia.

Lesson VII
From the Holy Gospel according to John
John 14:15-21
At that time, Jesus said unto His disciples: If ye love Me, keep My commandments. And I will pray the Father, and He shall give you another Comforter. And so on.

Homily by St. Augustine, Bishop of Hippo
74th and 75th Tracts on John
By these words of the Lord: “I will pray the Father, and He shall give you another Comforter”, He doth imply that Himself is a Comforter. The Greek word used, namely “Parakletos,” signifieth also an Advocate, and is used in that sense where it is written “We have an Advocate Parakleton with the Father, Jesus Christ the Righteous.” “Even the Spirit of truth, Whom the world cannot receive,” because as we read elsewhere, “the carnal mind is enmity against God; for it is not subject to the law of God, neither indeed can it be” as we may say plainly nothing can make unrighteousness righteous. By “the world,” in this place, we must understand the lovers of the world, a love which cometh not of the Father. And therefore it is that this love of the world, which we strive to lessen and to destroy in ourselves, is contrary to “the love of God, which is shed abroad in our hearts by the Holy Ghost which is given unto us.”

℟. I will pray the Father, and He shall give you another Comforter, * That He may abide with you for ever, even the Spirit of truth. Alleluia.
℣. For if I go not away, the Comforter will not come unto you; but if I depart, I will send Him unto you.
℟. That He may abide with you for ever, even the Spirit of truth. Alleluia.

Lesson VIII
The Spirit of truth Whom the world cannot receive, because it seeth Him not, neither knoweth Him “for to love the world is to lack those spiritual eyes, which are able to see Him Who is invisible, the Holy Ghost. “But ye know Him,” saith the Lord to His disciples, “for He shall dwell with you, and shall be in you.” He will be in them to dwell in them, not dwell in them to be in them for one must first be in a place before one dwell there. But lest the Apostles should think that the words, “He shall dwell with you,” signified that He should visibly abide with them for a while, as do guests in the houses of men, the Lord saith in explanation “He shall be in you.”

℟. For if I go not away, the Comforter will not come unto you; but if I depart, I will send Him unto you; * And when He is come, He will guide you into all truth. Alleluia.
℣. For He shall not speak of Himself; but whatsoever He shall hear, that shall He speak and He will show you things to come.
℟. And when He is come, He will guide you into all truth. Alleluia.
℣. Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, * and to the Holy Ghost.
℟. And when He is come, He will guide you into all truth. Alleluia.

Lesson IX
Therefore is He seen That is invisible. If He were not in us we could have in us no knowledge of Him but He is seen in us, as we see our conscience. We see the faces of other men, but we cannot see our Own but of consciences we see none save that within ourselves. But our conscience is never elsewhere but within us whereas the Holy Ghost may be without us, as well as within us. He is given to be within us, and, unless He be within us, we can neither see nor know Him, either within or without us. Then, after that He had promised the Holy Ghost, the Lord, lest they should deem that He was to give them that other Comforter instead of Himself, and that He Himself was to be no longer with them, said also “I will not leave you orphans I will come to you.” Therefore, although the Son of God hath made us by adoption sons of His Own Father, and hath willed that the Same Who is His Father by nature should be our Father by grace, nevertheless, He showeth that Himself hath toward us a love as of a Father, where He saith “I will not leave you orphans.”

[Te Deum follows]
