Friday of the First Week after the Octave of Easter
Feria
[Tempora/Pasc1-5]

Lesson I
Lesson from the Acts of the Apostles
Acts 8:9-13
There was therefore great joy in that city. Now there was a certain man named Simon, who before had been a magician in that city, seducing the people of Samaria, giving out that he was some great one: To whom they all gave ear, from the least to the greatest, saying: This man is the power of God, which is called great. And they were attentive to him, because, for a long time, he had bewitched them with his magical practices. But when they had believed Philip preaching of the kingdom of God, in the name of Jesus Christ, they were baptized, both men and women. Then Simon himself believed also; and being baptized, he adhered to Philip. And being astonished, wondered to see the signs and exceeding great miracles which were done.

℟. I am the True Vine, and ye are the branches; * He that abideth in Me, and I in him, the same bringeth forth much fruit, alleluia, alleluia.
℣. As the Father hath loved Me, so have I loved you.
℟. He that abideth in Me, and I in him, the same bringeth forth much fruit, alleluia, alleluia.

Lesson II
Acts 8:14-19
Now when the apostles, who were in Jerusalem, had heard that Samaria had received the word of God, they sent unto them Peter and John. Who, when they were come, prayed for them, that they might receive the Holy Ghost. For he was not as yet come upon any of them; but they were only baptized in the name of the Lord Jesus. Then they laid their hands upon them, and they received the Holy Ghost. And when Simon saw, that by the imposition of the hands of the apostles, the Holy Ghost was given, he offered them money, Saying: Give me also this power, that on whomsoever I shall lay my hands, he may receive the Holy Ghost.

℟. After that our Lord Jesus was risen again, He came and stood in the midst of His disciples, and said unto them: * Peace be unto you, alleluia. Then were the disciples glad, when they saw the Lord, alleluia.
℣. The first day of the week, when the doors were shut where the disciples were assembled, came Jesus, and stood in the midst, and said unto them:
℟. Peace be unto you, alleluia. Then were the disciples glad, when they saw the Lord, alleluia.
℣. Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, * and to the Holy Ghost.
℟. Peace be unto you, alleluia. Then were the disciples glad, when they saw the Lord, alleluia.

Lesson III
Acts 8:19-24
But Peter said to him: Keep thy money to thyself, to perish with thee, because thou hast thought that the gift of God may be purchased with money. Thou hast no part nor lot in this matter. For thy heart is not right in the sight of God. Do penance therefore for this thy wickedness; and pray to God, that perhaps this thought of thy heart may be forgiven thee. For I see thou art in the gall of bitterness, and in the bonds of iniquity. Then Simon answering, said: Pray you for me to the Lord, that none of these things which you have spoken may come upon me.

[Te Deum follows]
