Monday of the Fourth Week after the Octave of Easter
Feria
[Tempora/Pasc4-1]

Lesson I
Lesson from the letter of St. James the Apostle
Jas 1:17-20
Every best gift, and every perfect gift, is from above, coming down from the Father of lights, with whom there is no change, nor shadow of alteration. For of his own will hath he begotten us by the word of truth, that we might be some beginning of his creatures. You know, my dearest brethren. And let every man be swift to hear, but slow to speak, and slow to anger. For the anger of man worketh not the justice of God.

℟. Let now the redeemed of the Lord, alleluia. * Say, alleluia, alleluia, alleluia.
℣. Let them whom He hath redeemed from the hand of the enemy, and gathered them out of the lands.
℟. Say, alleluia, alleluia, alleluia.

Lesson II
Jas 1:21-24
Wherefore casting away all uncleanness, and abundance of naughtiness, with meekness receive the ingrafted word, which is able to save your souls. But be ye doers of the word, and not hearers only, deceiving your own selves. For if a man be a hearer of the word, and not a doer, he shall be compared to a man beholding his own countenance in a glass. For he beheld himself, and went his way, and presently forgot what manner of man he was.

℟. O sing unto the Lord, alleluia. * Sing unto Him, alleluia.
℣. Give unto the Lord glory and honour, give unto the Lord the glory due unto His Name.
℟. Sing unto Him, alleluia.
℣. Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, * and to the Holy Ghost.
℟. Sing unto Him, alleluia.

Lesson III
Jas 1:25-27
But he that hath looked into the perfect law of liberty, and hath continued therein, not becoming a forgetful hearer, but a doer of the work; this man shall be blessed in his deed. And if any man think himself to be religious, not bridling his tongue, but deceiving his own heart, this man's religion is vain. Religion clean and undefiled before God and the Father, is this: to visit the fatherless and widows in their tribulation: and to keep one's self unspotted from this world.

[Te Deum follows]
