Tuesday of the Fourth Week after the Octave of Easter
Feria
[Tempora/Pasc4-2]

Lesson I
Lesson from the letter of St. James the Apostle
Jas 2:1-4
My brethren, have not the faith of our Lord Jesus Christ of glory with respect of persons. For if there shall come into your assembly a man having a golden ring, in fine apparel, and there shall come in also a poor man in mean attire, And you have respect to him that is clothed with the fine apparel, and shall say to him: Sit thou here well; but say to the poor man: Stand thou there, or sit under my footstool: Do you not judge within yourselves, and are become judges of unjust thoughts?

℟. Bless ye God in the congregations, alleluia. * Even the Lord, ye that are of the fountains of Israel, alleluia, alleluia.
℣. Sing forth the honour of His Name, make His praise glorious.
℟. Even the Lord, ye that are of the fountains of Israel, alleluia, alleluia.

Lesson II
Jas 2:5-9
Hearken, my dearest brethren: hath not God chosen the poor in this world, rich in faith, and heirs of the kingdom which God hath promised to them that love him? But you have dishonoured the poor man. Do not the rich oppress you by might? and do not they draw you before the judgment seats? Do not they blaspheme the good name that is invoked upon you? If then you fulfill the royal law, according to the scriptures, Thou shalt love thy neighbour as thyself; you do well. But if you have respect to persons, you commit sin, being reproved by the law as transgressors.

℟. With my whole heart, alleluia, have I sought thee, alleluia. * O let me not wander from thy commandments, alleluia, alleluia.
℣. Blessed art Thou, O Lord, teach me thy statutes.
℟. O let me not wander from thy commandments, alleluia, alleluia.
℣. Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, * and to the Holy Ghost.
℟. O let me not wander from thy commandments, alleluia, alleluia.

Lesson III
Jas 2:10-13
And whosoever shall keep the whole law, but offend in one point, is become guilty of all. For he that said, Thou shalt not commit adultery, said also, Thou shalt not kill. Now if thou do not commit adultery, but shalt kill, thou art become a transgressor of the law. So speak ye, and so do, as being to be judged by the law of liberty. For judgment without mercy to him that hath not done mercy. And mercy exalteth itself above judgment

[Te Deum follows]
