Tuesday of the Second Week after the Octave of Easter
Feria
[Tempora/Pasc2-2]

Lesson I
Lesson from the Acts of the Apostles
Acts 17:22-27
But Paul standing in the midst of the Areopagus, said: Ye men of Athens, I perceive that in all things you are too superstitious. For passing by, and seeing your idols, I found an altar also, on which was written: To the unknown God. What therefore you worship, without knowing it, that I preach to you: God, who made the world, and all things therein; he, being Lord of heaven and earth, dwelleth not in temples made with hands; Neither is he served with men's hands, as though he needed any thing; seeing it is he who giveth to all life, and breath, and all things: And hath made of one, all mankind, to dwell upon the whole face of the earth, determining appointed times, and the limits of their habitation. That they should seek God, if happily they may feel after him or find him, although he be not far from every one of us:

℟. I am the True Vine, and ye are the branches; * He that abideth in Me, and I in him, the same bringeth forth much fruit, alleluia, alleluia.
℣. As the Father hath loved Me, so have I loved you.
℟. He that abideth in Me, and I in him, the same bringeth forth much fruit, alleluia, alleluia.

Lesson II
Acts 17:28-33
For in him we live, and move, and are; as some also of your own poets said: For we are also his offspring. Being therefore the offspring of God, we must not suppose the divinity to be like unto gold, or silver, or stone, the graving of art, and device of man. And God indeed having winked at the times of this ignorance, now declareth unto men, that all should every where do penance. Because he hath appointed a day wherein he will judge the world in equity, by the man whom he hath appointed; giving faith to all, by raising him up from the dead. And when they had heard of the resurrection of the dead, some indeed mocked, but others said: We will hear thee again concerning this matter. So Paul went out from among them.

℟. After that our Lord Jesus was risen again, He came and stood in the midst of His disciples, and said unto them: * Peace be unto you, alleluia. Then were the disciples glad, when they saw the Lord, alleluia.
℣. The first day of the week, when the doors were shut where the disciples were assembled, came Jesus, and stood in the midst, and said unto them:
℟. Peace be unto you, alleluia. Then were the disciples glad, when they saw the Lord, alleluia.
℣. Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, * and to the Holy Ghost.
℟. Peace be unto you, alleluia. Then were the disciples glad, when they saw the Lord, alleluia.

Lesson III
Acts 17:34, 18:1-4
But certain men adhering to him, did believe; among whom was also Dionysius, the Areopagite, and a woman named Damaris, and others with them. After these things, departing from Athens, he came to Corinth. And finding a certain Jew, named Aquila, born in Pontus, lately come from Italy, with Priscilla his wife, (because that Claudius had commanded all Jews to depart from Rome,) he came to them. And because he was of the same trade, he remained with them, and wrought; (now they were tentmakers by trade.) And he reasoned in the synagogue every sabbath, bringing in the name of the Lord Jesus; and he persuaded the Jews and the Greeks.

[Te Deum follows]
