Tuesday of the Eighth Week after Pentecost
Feria
[Tempora/Pent08-2]

Lesson I
Lesson from the first book of Kings
1 Kgs 11:1-4
Of the nations concerning which the Lord said to the children of Israel: You shall not go in unto them, neither shall any of them come in to yours: for they will most certainly turn away your heart to follow their gods. And to these was Solomon joined with a most ardent love. And he had seven hundred wives as queens, and three hundred concubines: and the women turned away his heart. And when he was now old, his heart was turned away by women to follow strange gods: and his heart was not perfect with the Lord his God, as was the heart of David his father.
And king Solomon loved many strange women besides the daughter of Pharao, and women of Moab, and of Ammon, and of Edom, and of Sidon, and of the Hethites:

℟. Lord, when thy people shall turn again to thee, and shall pray unto thee in this house; * Then hear Thou in heaven, O Lord, and deliver them out of the hand of their enemies.
℣. If thy people sin against thee, and turn again, and repent, and come and pray unto thee in this house.
℟. Then hear Thou in heaven, O Lord, and deliver them out of the hand of their enemies.

Lesson II
1 Kgs 11:5-8
But Solomon worshipped Astarthe the goddess of the Sidonians, and Moloch the idol of the ammonites. And Solomon did that which was not pleasing before the Lord, and did not fully follow the Lord, as David his father. Then Solomon built a temple for Chamos the idol of Moab, on the hill that is over against Jerusalem, and for Moloch the idol of the children of Ammon. And he did in this manner for all his wives that were strangers, who burnt incense, and offered sacrifice to their gods.

℟. And it came to pass when the Lord would take up Elijah into heaven by a whirlwind * Elisha cried, and said: My father, my father, the chariot of Israel, and the horsemen thereof.
℣. And as they still went on, and talked, behold, there appeared a chariot of fire, and horses of fire, and parted them both asunder, and Elijah went up by a whirlwind into heaven.
℟. Elisha cried, and said: My father, my father, the chariot of Israel, and the horsemen thereof.

Lesson III
1 Kgs 11:9-12
And the Lord was angry with Solomon, because his mind was turned away from the Lord the God of Israel, who had appeared to him twice, And had commanded him concerning this thing, that he should not follow strange gods: but he kept not the things which the Lord commanded him. The Lord therefore said to Solomon: Because thou hast done this, and hast not kept my covenant, and my precepts, which I have commanded thee, I will divide and rend thy kingdom, and will give it to thy servant. Nevertheless in thy days I will not do it, for David thy father's sake: but I will rend it out of the hand of thy son

℟. Thus saith the Lord: I took thee out of thy father's house, and appointed thee to be ruler over My people, over Israel. * And I was with thee whithersoever thou wentest, to establish thy kingdom for ever.
℣. And I have made thee a great name, like unto the name of the great men that are in the earth, and have caused thee to rest from all thine enemies.
℟. And I was with thee whithersoever thou wentest, to establish thy kingdom for ever.
℣. Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, * and to the Holy Ghost.
℟. And I was with thee whithersoever thou wentest, to establish thy kingdom for ever.
