Tuesday of the Sixth Week after Pentecost
Feria
[Tempora/Pent06-2]

Lesson I
Lesson from the second book of Samuel
2 Sam 14:4-7
And when the woman of Thecua was come in to the king, she fell before him upon the ground, and worshipped, and said: Save me, O king. And the king said to her: What is the matter with thee? She answered: Alas, I am a widow woman: for my husband is dead. And thy handmaid had two sons: and they quarrelled with each other in the field, and there was none to part them: and the one struck the other, and slew him. And behold the whole kindred rising against thy handmaid, saith: Deliver him that hath slain his brother, that we may kill him for the life of his brother, whom he slew, and that we may destroy the heir: and they seek to quench my spark which is left, and will leave my husband no name, nor remainder upon the earth.

℟. Lord, when thy people shall turn again to thee, and shall pray unto thee in this house; * Then hear Thou in heaven, O Lord, and deliver them out of the hand of their enemies.
℣. If thy people sin against thee, and turn again, and repent, and come and pray unto thee in this house.
℟. Then hear Thou in heaven, O Lord, and deliver them out of the hand of their enemies.

Lesson II
2 Sam 14:10-14
And the king said: If any one shall say ought against thee, bring him to me, and be shall not touch thee any more. And she said: Let the king remember the Lord his God, that the next of kin be not multiplied to take revenge, and that they may not kill my son. And he said: As the Lord liveth, there shall not one hair of thy son fall to the earth. Then the woman said: Let thy handmaid speak one word to my lord the king. And he said: Speak. And the woman said: Why hast thou thought such a thing against the people of God, and why hath the king spoken this word, to sin, and not bring home again his own exile? We all die, and like waters that return no more, we fall down into the earth: neither will God have a soul to perish, but recalleth, meaning that he that is cast off should not altogether perish.

℟. And it came to pass when the Lord would take up Elijah into heaven by a whirlwind * Elisha cried, and said: My father, my father, the chariot of Israel, and the horsemen thereof.
℣. And as they still went on, and talked, behold, there appeared a chariot of fire, and horses of fire, and parted them both asunder, and Elijah went up by a whirlwind into heaven.
℟. Elisha cried, and said: My father, my father, the chariot of Israel, and the horsemen thereof.

Lesson III
2 Sam 14:19-21
And the king said: Is not the hand of Joab with thee in all this? The woman answered, and said: By the health of thy soul, my lord, O king, it is neither on the left hand, nor on the right, in all these things which my lord the king hath spoken: for thy servant Joab, he commanded me, and he put all these words into the mouth of thy handmaid. That I should come about with this form of speech, thy servant Joab, commanded this: but thou, my lord, O king, art wise, according to the wisdom of an angel of God, to understand all things upon earth. And the king said to Joab: Behold I am appeased and have granted thy request: Go therefore and fetch back the boy Absalom

℟. Thus saith the Lord: I took thee out of thy father's house, and appointed thee to be ruler over My people, over Israel. * And I was with thee whithersoever thou wentest, to establish thy kingdom for ever.
℣. And I have made thee a great name, like unto the name of the great men that are in the earth, and have caused thee to rest from all thine enemies.
℟. And I was with thee whithersoever thou wentest, to establish thy kingdom for ever.
℣. Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, * and to the Holy Ghost.
℟. And I was with thee whithersoever thou wentest, to establish thy kingdom for ever.
