Friday of the Seventh Week after Pentecost
Feria
[Tempora/Pent07-5]

Lesson I
Lesson from the first book of Kings
1 Kgs 5:1-4
And Hiram king of Tyre sent his servants to Solomon: for he heard that they had anointed him king in the room of his father: for Hiram had always been David's friend. And Solomon sent to Hiram, saying: Thou knowest the will of David my father, and that he could not build a house to the name of the Lord his God, because of the wars that were round about him, until the Lord put them under the soles of his feet. But now the Lord my God hath given me rest round about: and there is no adversary nor evil occurrence.

℟. Saul hath slain his thousands, and David his ten thousands. * Because the hand of the Lord was with him, he smote the Philistine, and took away the reproach from Israel.
℣. Is not this David? Did they not sing one to another of him in dances, saying: Saul hath slain his thousands, and David his ten thousands?
℟. Because the hand of the Lord was with him, he smote the Philistine, and took away the reproach from Israel.

Lesson II
1 Kgs 5:5-6
Wherefore I purpose to build a temple to the name of the Lord my God, as the Lord spoke to David my father, saying: my son, whom I will set upon the throne in thy place, he shall build a house to my name. Give orders therefore that thy servants cut me down cedar trees out of Libanus, and let my servants be with thy servants: and I will give thee the hire of thy servants whatsoever thou wilt ask, for thou knowest how there is not among my people a man that has skill to hew wood like to the Sidonians.

℟. Ye mountains of Gilboa, let there be no dew, neither let there be rain upon you * For there are the mighty of Israel fallen.
℣. All ye mountains that stand round about, the Lord look upon you but let Him pass by Gilboa
℟. For there are the mighty of Israel fallen.

Lesson III
1 Kgs 5:7-9
Now when Hiram had heard the words of Solomon, he rejoiced exceedingly, and said: Blessed be the Lord God this day, who hath given to David a very wise son over this numerous people. And Hiram sent to Solomon, saying: I have heard all thou hast desired of me: and I will do all thy desire concerning cedar trees, and fir trees. My servants shall bring them down from Libanus to the sea: and I will put them together in floats in the sea, and convey them to the place, which thou shalt signify to me; and will land them there, and thou shalt receive them: and thou shalt allow me necessaries, to furnish food for my household.

℟. Thus saith the Lord: I took thee out of thy father's house, and appointed thee to be ruler over My people, over Israel. * And I was with thee whithersoever thou wentest, to establish thy kingdom for ever.
℣. And I have made thee a great name, like unto the name of the great men that are in the earth, and have caused thee to rest from all thine enemies.
℟. And I was with thee whithersoever thou wentest, to establish thy kingdom for ever.
℣. Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, * and to the Holy Ghost.
℟. And I was with thee whithersoever thou wentest, to establish thy kingdom for ever.
