Fifth Sunday after Pentecost
Semiduplex
[Tempora/Pent05-0]

Lesson I
Lesson from the second book of Samuel
2 Sam 1:1-4
Now it came to pass, after Saul was dead, that David returned from the slaughter of the Amalecites, and abode two days in Siceleg. And on the third day, there appeared a man who came out of Saul's camp, with his garments rent, and dust strewed on his head: and when he came to David, he fell upon his face, and adored. And David said to him: From whence comest thou? And he said to him: I am fled out of the camp of Israel. And David said unto him: What is the matter that is come to pass? tell me. He said: The people are fled from the battle, and many of the people are fallen and dead: moreover Saul and Jonathan his son are slain.

℟. Prepare your hearts unto the Lord, and serve Him Only * And He will deliver you out of the hand of your enemies.
℣. Return unto Him with all your hearts, and put away the strange gods from among you.
℟. And He will deliver you out of the hand of your enemies.

Lesson II
2 Sam 1:5-10
And David said to the young man that told him: How knowest thou that Saul and Jonathan his son, are dead? And the young man that told him, said: I came by chance upon mount Gelboe, and Saul leaned upon his spear: and the chariots and horsemen drew nigh unto him, And looking behind him, and seeing me, he called me. And I answered, Here am I. And he said to me: Who art thou? And I said to him: I am an Amalecite. And he said to me: Stand over me, and kill me: for anguish is come upon me, and as yet my whole life is in me. So standing over him, I killed him: for I knew that he could not live after the fall: and I took the diadem that was on his head, and the bracelet that was on his arm and have brought them hither to thee, my lord.

℟. God, Which heareth all, even He sent His Angel, and took me from keeping my father's sheep, and * Anointed me with the oil of His mercy.
℣. The Lord That delivered me out of the mouth of the lion, and out of the paw of the bear
℟. And anointed me with the oil of His mercy.

Lesson III
2 Sam 1:11-15
Then David took hold of his garments and rent them, and likewise all the men that were with him. And they mourned, and wept, and fasted until evening for Saul, and for Jonathan his son, and for the people of the Lord, and for the house of Israel, because they were fallen by the sword. And David said to the young man that told him: Whence art thou? He answered: I am the son of a stranger of Amalee. David said to him: Why didst thou not fear to put out thy hand to kill the Lord's anointed? And David calling one of his servants, said: Go near and fall upon him. And he struck him so that he died.

℟. The Lord That delivered me out of the mouth of the lion, and out of the paw of the bear * He will deliver me out of the hand of mine enemies.
℣. God hath sent forth His mercy and His truth, and delivered my soul from among the lion's whelps.
℟. He will deliver me out of the hand of mine enemies.
℣. Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, * and to the Holy Ghost.
℟. He will deliver me out of the hand of mine enemies.

Lesson IV
From the Book of Moral (Reflections upon Job), written by Pope St. Gregory the Great.
Bk. iv. ch. 3, 4
Thus was it that David, who rewarded no evil to them that did evil to him (Ps. vii. 5), when Saul and Jonathan had fallen in battle, cursed the mountains of Gilboa, saying Ye mountains of Gilboa, let there be no dew, neither let there be rain upon you, nor fields of offerings; for there the shield of the mighty is vilely cast away, the shield of Saul, as though he had not been anointed with oil. Why was it that Jeremiah, when he saw that his preaching was thrown away upon his hearers, cursed and said Cursed be the man who brought tidings to my father, saying: A man-child is born unto thee? (xx. 15.)

℟. Saul hath slain his thousands, and David his ten thousands. * Because the hand of the Lord was with him, he smote the Philistine, and took away the reproach from Israel.
℣. Is not this David? Did they not sing one to another of him in dances, saying: Saul hath slain his thousands, and David his ten thousands?
℟. Because the hand of the Lord was with him, he smote the Philistine, and took away the reproach from Israel.

Lesson V
He had the mountains of Gilboa to do with the death of Saul, that they should be condemned to have dew fall on them no more, neither rain, but should wither away, barren of the green glory of the springtime? But this word Gilboa signified bubbling fountain, and the death of Saul the Anointed of God is a type of the death of our Anointed Mediator. Thus we find in the mountains of Gilboa no unfit image of the proud hearts of the Jews, which had their spring in earthly desires, and took part in the death of the Anointed Saviour. And since among them their Anointed Monarch met His death, the dew of grace is upon them no more.

℟. Ye mountains of Gilboa, let there be no dew, neither let there be rain upon you * For there are the mighty of Israel fallen.
℣. All ye mountains that stand round about, the Lord look upon you but let Him pass by Gilboa
℟. For there are the mighty of Israel fallen.

Lesson VI
And well is it said of them Let there be upon you no fields of offerings. The proud minds of the Hebrews bear yet no offering. Since the coming of their Redeemer, the most part of them remain still without belief in Him, and refuse to follow the promise of their ancient faith. The Holy Church hath borne for her first-born, holy unto the Lord, a multitude of the Gentiles, and will, but in the end of the world, embrace such Jews as she then shall find, and present them as the last gatherings of her harvest.

℟. Thus saith the Lord: I took thee out of thy father's house, and appointed thee to be ruler over My people, over Israel. * And I was with thee whithersoever thou wentest, to establish thy kingdom for ever.
℣. And I have made thee a great name, like unto the name of the great men that are in the earth, and have caused thee to rest from all thine enemies.
℟. And I was with thee whithersoever thou wentest, to establish thy kingdom for ever.
℣. Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, * and to the Holy Ghost.
℟. And I was with thee whithersoever thou wentest, to establish thy kingdom for ever.

Lesson VII
From the Holy Gospel according to Matthew
Matt 5:20-24
At that time, Jesus said unto His disciples: Unless your righteousness shall exceed the righteousness of the Scribes and Pharisees, ye shall in no case enter into the kingdom of heaven. And so on.

Homily by St. Augustine, Bishop of Hippo
Bk. I on the Lord's Sermon on the Mount, ch. 9
Thou shalt not kill, is of the righteousness of the Pharisees; Thou shalt not be angry with thy brother without a cause, is of the righteousness of them which shall enter into the kingdom of heaven. The least therefore is: “Thou shalt not kill, and whosoever shall break this commandment, he shall be called the least in the kingdom of heaven.” (v. 19.) But whosoever shall do it, and not kill, he is not therefore great, and meet for the kingdom of heaven; albeit, he hath risen a step; but he will have gotten farther, if he be not angry with his brother without a cause, which, if he do, he will be the farther off from manslaughter. Wherefore, He Which teacheth us that we are not to be angry without a cause, destroyeth not the law, Thou shalt not kill, but rather fulfilleth and increaseth it, making us not only to be free of the sin of outward killing, but also clean of anger within.

℟. My sins are many, yea, they are more in number than the sands of the sea; I am not worthy to look up toward heaven because of the multitude of my iniquities; for I have provoked thee to anger; * And done evil in thy sight.
℣. For I acknowledge my transgression, and my sin is ever before me, for against thee only have I sinned.
℟. And done evil in thy sight.

Lesson VIII
On sins of this kind there are diverse steps. First, there is the swelling feeling of anger. When this feeling appeareth in a man's heart, he keepeth it. Then the inward disturbance wringeth forth words of indignation, not themselves meaning aught, but showing the trouble of him who is provoked. And this is something more than anger kept covered under silence. Next, this audible outburst of indignation may contain direct and open reviling of him who hath roused it. And it cannot be doubted that this is something more than an empty cry of anger.

℟. One Seraph cried unto another: * Holy, Holy, Holy is the Lord God of hosts; the whole earth is full of His glory.
℣. There are Three That bear record in heaven: the Father, the Word, and the Holy Ghost, and these Three are One.
℟. Holy, Holy, Holy is the Lord God of hosts.
℣. Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, * and to the Holy Ghost.
℟. The whole earth is full of His glory.

Lesson IX
Behold here the three degrees of guilt open respectively to the judgment, to the council, and to hellfire. In the judgment, there is still place for defence. In the council, albeit this also is in a sense a judgment, yet we may suppose this distinction from the judgment proper, that the council pronounceth sentence, not as the result of a trial whereat the accused is present, but as the result of a consultation among the judges, to what punishment he is to be sentenced of whom it is already established that he is guilty. When we get to hell-fire, there remaineth no longer any doubt about condemnation, as in the judgment, and no longer any doubt about sentence, as in the council. In hellfire the condemnation and the pain of him that is condemned are alike certain.

[Te Deum follows]
