Wednesday within the Octave of Corpus Christi
Semiduplex II classis
[Tempora/Pent02-3]

Lesson I
Lesson from the first book of Samuel
1 Sam 6:19-21; 7:1
But he slew of the men of Bethsames, because they had seen the ark of the Lord: and he slew of the people seventy men, and fifty thousand of the common people. And the people lamented, because the Lord had smitten the people with a great slaughter. And the men of Bethsames said: Who shall be able to stand before the Lord this holy God? and to whom shall he go up from us? And they sent messengers to the inhabitants of Cariathiarim, saying: The Philistines have brought back the ark of the Lord, come ye down and fetch it up to you. So they came as they were bidden, the men of Cariathiarim, and brought back the ark with them, housing it with a certain Abinadab in Gabaa; and they set apart his son Eleazar to keep watch over the Lord's ark.

℟. The whole assembly of the children of Israel shall kill the lamb toward the evening of the Passover. * And they shall eat the flesh, and unleavened bread.
℣. Even Christ our Passover is sacrificed for us therefore let us keep the feast with the unleavened bread of sincerity and truth.
℟. And they shall eat the flesh, and unleavened bread.

Lesson II
1 Sam 7:2-4
And it came to pass, that from the day the ark of the Lord abode in Cariathiarim days were multiplied, (for it was now the twentieth year,) and all the house of Israel rested following the Lord. And Samuel spoke to all the house of Israel, saying: If you turn to the Lord with all your heart, put away the strange gods from among you, Baalim and Astaroth: and prepare your hearts unto the Lord, and serve him only, and he will deliver you out of the hand of the Philistines. Then the children of Israel put away Baalim and Astaroth, and served the Lord only.

℟. Ye shall eat flesh, and shall be filled with bread. * This is the bread which the Lord hath given you to eat.
℣. Moses gave you not that Bread from heaven, but My Father giveth you the true Bread from heaven.
℟. This is the bread which the Lord hath given you to eat.

Lesson III
1 Sam 7:5-8
And Samuel said: Gather all Israel to Masphath, that I may pray to the Lord for you. And they gathered together to Masphath: and they drew water, and poured it out before the Lord, and they fasted on that day, and they said there: We have sinned against the Lord. And Samuel judged the children of Israel in Masphath. And the Philistines heard that the children of Israel were gathered together to Masphath, and the lords of the Philistines went up against Israel. And when the children of Israel heard this, they were afraid of the Philistines. And they said to Samuel: Cease not to cry to the Lord our God for us, that he may save us out of the hand of the Philistines.

℟. Elijah looked, and, behold, there was a cake baken on the coals at his head, and he arose, and did eat and drink; * And went in the strength of that meat [forty days and forty nights] unto the mount of God.
℣. If any man eat of this Bread, he shall live for ever.
℟. And went in the strength of that meat [forty days and forty nights] unto the mount of God.
℣. Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, * and to the Holy Ghost.
℟. And went in the strength of that meat [forty days and forty nights] unto the mount of God.

Lesson IV
From the Book upon the Sacraments written by St. Ambrose, Bishop of Milan
Bk. iv. ch. 4
Who invented the Sacraments but the Lord Jesus? The Sacraments came down from heaven, for all counsel is from heaven. Nevertheless, it was a great and wonderful work of God when He rained down manna upon His people, and the people laboured not, and yet were fed. Perchance, thou sayest Here, it is my bread which is used. But that bread is bread only till the Sacramental words are spoken at the Consecration, instead of bread, there cometh to be the Body of Christ. This therefore let us establish. How cometh it that that which was bread becometh the Body of Christ Through the Consecration. And in what words and in Whose language doth the Consecration take place In those of the Lord Jesus. All the other things which are said (in the Liturgy), the ascription of praise to God (in the Preface), the prayer for the people, for kings, and for others which formeth the first part [of the Canon, these are put in the mouth of the Priest.] But when that point is reached when this worshipful Sacrament is to be consecrated, then the Priest useth no more his own words, but Christ's.

℟. As they were eating, Jesus took bread, and blest it, and brake it, and gave it to the disciples, and said: * Take, eat this is My Body.
℣. The men of my tabernacle said: O that we had of his flesh, we cannot be satisfied.
℟. Take, eat this is My Body.

Lesson V
It is the word of Christ, therefore, Which doth the needful work in this Sacrament. And what is the word of Christ? It is the word of Him at Whose bidding all things were made. The Lord commanded, and the heavens were created the Lord commanded, and the earth was formed the Lord commanded, and the seas were made the Lord commanded, and all creatures sprang into being. Thou seest, then, how mightily working a word is the word of Christ. If then the word of Christ hath such power that it can make that to be which hath never been, wherein doth it appear greater that it maketh one thing to be changed into Another There was once no heaven there was once no sea there was once no earth. But hear him who saith: “He spake, and it was done He commanded, and it stood fast.” (Ps. xxxii. 9.) If, then, I am to answer thee, I tell thee, that before the Consecration it is not the Body of Christ, but after the Consecration it is the Body of Christ, for Himself “hath spoken, and it is done He hath commanded, and it standeth fast.”

℟. Jesus took the cup, after supper, saying: This cup is the New Testament in My Blood. * This do in remembrance of Me.
℣. My soul hath them still in remembrance, and is humbled in me.
℟. This do in remembrance of Me.

Lesson VI
And now I come back to my text. It is indeed a great and worshipful fact that manna was rained down upon the Jews but, think thou, which was the more great and worshipful, the manna from heaven or the Body of Christ ”the Body of that Same Christ by Whom the heavens were made And, again the fathers “did eat manna, and are dead he that eateth of this Bread,” (John vi. 58,) It is unto him “the remission of sins,” (Matth. xxvi. 28,) and “he shall never die.” (John xi. 26.) Therefore it is not idly that, when thou art receiving, thou sayest “Amen” testifying in thine heart that That Which thou art taking is the Body of Christ. The Priest saith unto thee: “The Body of Christ” ”and thou answerest: “Amen” that is to say, “It is true.” What then thy tongue confesseth, let thine heart hold to.

℟. I am that Bread of life. Your fathers did eat manna in the wilderness, and are dead. * This is the Bread Which cometh down from heaven, that a man may eat thereof, and not die.
℣. I am the living Bread Which came down from heaven if any man eat of this Bread, he shall live for ever.
℟. This is the Bread Which cometh down from heaven, that a man may eat thereof, and not die.
℣. Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, * and to the Holy Ghost.
℟. This is the Bread Which cometh down from heaven, that a man may eat thereof, and not die.

Lesson VII
From the Holy Gospel according to John
John 6: 55-59)
At that time, Jesus said unto the multitudes of the Jews: My Flesh is meat indeed, and My Blood is drink indeed. And so on.

Homily by St. Hilary, Bishop of Poitiers.
Bk. viii. on the Trinity)
When we speak concerning the things of God, we must not speak after the manner of men, nor after the manner of the world. Let us read those things which are written, and understand those things which we read and then let us act as having a perfect faith. We shall speak but folly and godlessness if we speak concerning the natural truth of Christ in use and have not learnt at Christ's School how we should speak. He Himself saith “My Flesh is meat indeed, and My Blood is drink indeed. He that eateth My Flesh and drinketh My Blood, dwelleth in Me, and I in him.” There is here no room left for doubt as to What is His Flesh and what is His Blood.

℟. He that eateth My Flesh and drinketh My Blood, * Dwelleth in Me, and I in him.
℣. What nation is there so great, who hath gods so nigh unto them, as the Lord our God is to us
℟. Dwelleth in Me, and I in him.

Lesson VIII
Now we know by the declaration of the Lord Himself and by (the teaching of) our Faith, the reality of His Flesh and Blood. And when we eat the One and drink the Other, They work effectually in us to make us dwell in Him and He in us. Is “not this a reality Surely it befalleth not them to find it true, who deny that Christ Jesus is Very God. He is in us by means of His Flesh, and we are in Him when that which we are is with Him in God. That we dwell in Him through that Sacrament wherein His Flesh and Blood are given unto us, He Himself doth testify, where He saith “Yet a little while, and the world seeth Me no more but ye see Me because I live ye shall live also. (At that day ye shall know that) I am in My Father, and ye in Me, and I in you.” (John xiv. 19, 20.)

℟. As the living Father hath sent Me, and I live by the Father, * So he that eateth Me, even he shall live by Me.
℣. With the bread of life and understanding hath the Lord fed him.
℟. So he that eateth Me, even he shall live by Me.
℣. Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, * and to the Holy Ghost.
℟. So he that eateth Me, even he shall live by Me.

Lesson IX
But that this union in us is a real one, He testifieth thus: “He that eateth My Flesh and drinketh My Blood, dwelleth in Me, and I in him.” For no one dwelleth in Him in whom He doth not dwell, since he which receiveth (the Body of Christ) hath but received that Flesh of (the same nature as) his own, which Christ hath taken into Himself. The mystery of this perfect union He had taught before, when He said: “As the living Father hath sent Me, and I live by the Father, so, he that eateth Me, even he shall live by Me.” He therefore liveth by the Father, and, as He liveth by the Father, so shall we live by Him.

[Te Deum follows]
