Friday of the Fourth Week after Pentecost
Feria
[Tempora/Pent04-5]

Lesson I
Lesson from the first book of Samuel
1 Sam 20:1-2
But David fled from Najoth, which is in Ramatha, and came and said to Jonathan: What have I done? what is my iniquity, and what is my sin against thy father, that he seeketh my life? And he said to him: God forbid, thou shalt not die: for my father will do nothing great or little, without first telling me: hath then my father hid this word only from me? no, this shall not be.

℟. Saul hath slain his thousands, and David his ten thousands. * Because the hand of the Lord was with him, he smote the Philistine, and took away the reproach from Israel.
℣. Is not this David? Did they not sing one to another of him in dances, saying: Saul hath slain his thousands, and David his ten thousands?
℟. Because the hand of the Lord was with him, he smote the Philistine, and took away the reproach from Israel.

Lesson II
1 Sam 20:3-4
And he swore again to David. And David said: thy father certainly knoweth that I have found grace in thy sight, and he will say: Let not Jonathan know this, lest he be grieved. But truly as the Lord liveth, and thy soul liveth, there is but one step (as I may say) between me and death. And Jonathan said to David: Whatsoever thy soul shall say to me, I will do for thee.

℟. Ye mountains of Gilboa, let there be no dew, neither let there be rain upon you * For there are the mighty of Israel fallen.
℣. All ye mountains that stand round about, the Lord look upon you but let Him pass by Gilboa
℟. For there are the mighty of Israel fallen.

Lesson III
1 Sam 20:5-7
And David said to Jonathan: Behold tomorrow is the new moon, and I according to custom am wont to sit beside the king to eat: let me go then that I may be hid in the field till the evening of the third day. If thy father look and inquire for me, thou shalt answer him: David asked me that he might run to Bethlehem his own city: because there are solemn sacrifices there for all his tribe. If he shall say, It is well: thy servant shall have peace: but if he be angry, know that his malice is come to its height.

℟. Thus saith the Lord: I took thee out of thy father's house, and appointed thee to be ruler over My people, over Israel. * And I was with thee whithersoever thou wentest, to establish thy kingdom for ever.
℣. And I have made thee a great name, like unto the name of the great men that are in the earth, and have caused thee to rest from all thine enemies.
℟. And I was with thee whithersoever thou wentest, to establish thy kingdom for ever.
℣. Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, * and to the Holy Ghost.
℟. And I was with thee whithersoever thou wentest, to establish thy kingdom for ever.
