Wednesday of the Eleventh Week after Pentecost
Feria
[Tempora/Pent11-3]

Lesson I
Lesson from the second book of Kings
2 Kgs 23:24-26
Moreover the diviners by spirits, and soothsayers, and the figures of idols, and the uncleannesses, and the abominations, that had been in the land of Juda, and Jerusalem, Josias took away: that he might perform the words of the law, that were written in the book which Helcias the priest had found in the temple of the Lord. There was no king before him like unto him, that returned to the Lord with all his heart, and with all his soul, and with ail his strength, according to all the law of Moses: neither after him did there arise any like him. But yet the Lord turned not away from the wrath of his great indignation, wherewith his anger was kindled against Juda: because of the provocations, wherewith Manasses had provoked him

℟. My sins are many, yea, they are more in number than the sands of the sea; I am not worthy to look up toward heaven because of the multitude of my iniquities; for I have provoked thee to anger; * And done evil in thy sight.
℣. For I acknowledge my transgression, and my sin is ever before me, for against thee only have I sinned.
℟. And done evil in thy sight.

Lesson II
2 Kgs 23:27-30
And the Lord said: I will remove Juda also from before my face, as I have removed Israel: and I will cast off this city Jerusalem, which I chose, and the house, of which I said: My name shall be there. 28 Now the rest of the acts of Josias, and all that he did, are they not written in the book of the words of the days of the kings of Juda? In his days Pharao Nechao king of Egypt went up against the king of Assyria to the river Euphrates: and king Josias went to meet him: and was slain at Mageddo, when he had seen him. And his servants carried him dead from Mageddo: and they brought him to Jerusalem, and buried him in Iris own sepulchre.

℟. O Lord, Thou hast hearkened unto the prayer of thy servant, that I might build a temple unto thy Name, * O God of Israel, bless Thou, and hallow this house for ever.
℣. O Lord, Who keepest covenant with thy servants that walk before thee in all their heart.
℟. O God of Israel, bless Thou, and hallow this house for ever.
℣. Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, * and to the Holy Ghost.
℟. O God of Israel, bless Thou, and hallow this house for ever.
