Saturday of the Fourth Week after Pentecost
Feria
[Tempora/Pent04-6]

Lesson I
Lesson from the first book of Samuel
1 Sam 21:1-3
And David came to Nobe to Achimelech the priest: and Achimelech was astonished at David's coming. And he said to him: Why art thou alone, and no man with thee? And David said to Achimelech the priest: The king hath commanded me a business, and said: Let no man know the thing for which thou art sent by me, and what manner of commands I have given thee: and I have appointed my servants to such and such a place. Now therefore if thou have any thing at hand, though it were but five loaves, give me, or whatsoever thou canst find.

℟. My sins are many, yea, they are more in number than the sands of the sea; I am not worthy to look up toward heaven because of the multitude of my iniquities; for I have provoked thee to anger; * And done evil in thy sight.
℣. For I acknowledge my transgression, and my sin is ever before me, for against thee only have I sinned.
℟. And done evil in thy sight.

Lesson II
1 Sam 21:4-6
And the priest answered David, saying: I have no common bread at hand, but only holy bread, if the young men be clean, especially from women? And David answered the priest, and said to him: Truly, as to what concerneth women, we have refrained ourselves from yesterday and the day before, when we came out, and the vessels of the young men were holy. Now this way is defiled, but it shall also be sanctified this day in the vessels. The priest therefore gave him hallowed bread: for there was no bread there, but only the loaves of proposition, which had been taken away from before the face of the Lord, that hot loaves might be set up.

℟. O Lord, Thou hast hearkened unto the prayer of thy servant, that I might build a temple unto thy Name, * O God of Israel, bless Thou, and hallow this house for ever.
℣. O Lord, Who keepest covenant with thy servants that walk before thee in all their heart.
℟. O God of Israel, bless Thou, and hallow this house for ever.

Lesson III
1 Sam 21:7-9
Now a certain man of the servants of Saul was there that day, within the tabernacle of the Lord: and his name was Doeg, an Edomite, the chiefest of Saul's herdsmen. And David said to Achimelech: Hast thou here at hand a spear, or a sword? for I brought not my own sword, nor my own weapons with me, for the king's business required haste. And the priest said: Lo, here is the sword of Goliath the Philistine whom thou slewest in the valley of Terebinth, wrapped up in a cloth behind the ephod: if thou wilt take this, take it, for here is no other but this. And David said: There is none like that, give it me.

℟. Hearken, O Lord, unto the cry and to the prayer which thy servant prayeth before thee today, that thine eyes may be open and thine ears attend; * Toward this house day and night.
℣. Look down from thine high and holy place, O Lord, even from heaven thy dwelling.
℟. Toward this house, day and night.
℣. Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, * and to the Holy Ghost.
℟. Toward this house, day and night.
