Monday of the Sixth Week after Pentecost
Feria
[Tempora/Pent06-1]

Lesson I
Lesson from the second book of Samuel
2 Sam 13:22-25
But Absalom spoke not to Amnon neither good nor evil: for Absalom hated Amnon because he had ravished his sister Thamar. And it came to pass after two years, that the sheep of Absalom were shorn in Baalhasor, which is near Ephraim: and Absalom invited all the king's sons: And he came to the king, and said to him: Behold thy servant's sheep are shorn. Let the king, I pray, with his servants come to his servant. And the king said to Absalom: Nay, my son, do not ask that we should all come, and be chargeable to thee. And when he pressed him, and he would not go, he blessed him.

℟. Remember, O Lord, thy covenant, and say unto the destroying Angel: Stay now thine hand; * That the land be not utterly laid waste, and that thou destroy not every living soul.
℣. Even I it is that have sinned, and done evil indeed; but these sheep, what have they done? Let thine anger, I pray thee, O Lord, be turned away from thy people.
℟. That the land be not utterly laid waste, and that Thou destroy not every living soul.

Lesson II
2 Sam 13:26-29
And Absalom said: If thou wilt not come, at least let my brother Amnon, I beseech thee, come with us. And the king said to him: It is not necessary that he should go with thee. But Absalom pressed him, so that he let Amnon and all the king's sons go with him. And Absalom made a feast as it were the feast of a king. And Absalom had commanded his servants, saying: Take notice when Amnon shall be drunk with wine, and when I shall say to you: Strike him, and kill him, fear not: for it is I that command you: take courage, and be valiant men. And the servants of Absalom did to Amnon as Absalom had commanded them. And all the king's sons arose and got up every man upon his mule, and fled.

℟. O Lord, Thou hast hearkened unto the prayer of thy servant, that I might build a temple unto thy Name, * O God of Israel, bless Thou, and hallow this house for ever.
℣. O Lord, Who keepest covenant with thy servants that walk before thee in all their heart.
℟. O God of Israel, bless Thou, and hallow this house for ever.

Lesson III
2 Sam 13:30-34
And while they were yet in the way, a rumour came to David, saying: Absalom hath slain all the king's sons, and there is not one of them left. Then the king rose up, and rent his garments: and fell upon the ground, and all his servants, that stood about him, rent their garments. But Jonadab the son of Semmaa David's brother answering, said: Let not my lord the king think that all the king's sons are slain: Amnon only is dead, for he was appointed by the mouth of Absalom from the day that he ravished his sister Thamar. Now therefore let not my lord the king take this thing into his heart, saying: All the king's sons are slain: for Amnon only is dead. But Absalom fled away:

℟. Hearken, O Lord, unto the cry and to the prayer which thy servant prayeth before thee today, that thine eyes may be open and thine ears attend; * Toward this house day and night.
℣. Look down from thine high and holy place, O Lord, even from heaven thy dwelling.
℟. Toward this house, day and night.
℣. Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, * and to the Holy Ghost.
℟. Toward this house, day and night.
