Sixteenth Sunday after Pentecost
Semiduplex
[Tempora/Pent16-0]

Lessons I–VI: from the Scripture of the day.

Lesson VII
From the Holy Gospel according to Luke
Luke 14:1-11
At that time: As Jesus went into the house of one of the chief Pharisees, to eat bread on the Sabbath-day, they watched Him. And, behold, there was a certain man before Him, which had the dropsy. And so on.

Homily by St. Ambrose, Bishop (of Milan.)
Bk. 7 on Luke XIV
Now is healed this man sick of the dropsy, in whom too much watery matter had well-nigh drowned the functions of life, and quenched the fire of understanding. Anon, a lesson is given in lowly-mindedness, when it is forbidden to the guests at a marriage feast to go and sit down unasked in the highest room, albeit the Lord spake gently, that the teaching of courtesy might forestall a harsh rebuke, reason prevail by dint of persuasion, and the desires be bent to follow the instruction. And upon this, as next-door neighbour, cometh courtesy, which is so called by the Lord, when it is shown to the poor and weak, since to show it to them from whom we are to receive aught, is but a movement of self-interest.

℟. O that Thou wouldest hide me in the grave; that Thou wouldest keep me secret, until thy wrath be past, even thine, O Lord, Thou That alone art God; * That Thou wouldest appoint me a set time, and remember me!
℣. Are thy days as the days of man, that Thou inquirest after mine iniquity, and there is none that can deliver out of thine hand.
℟. That Thou wouldest appoint me a set time, and remember me!

Lesson VIII
Lastly, as to a soldier that hath served his full time, is apportioned a reward for esteeming lightly of riches so he only can inherit the kingdom of God, whose soul is not given to seek after lower ends, and who purchaseth not to himself earthly possessions whereas the Lord saith: “Sell that thou hast, and follow Me.” (Matth. xix. 21.) Neither can he gain it that buyeth oxen, which beasts Elisha slew and gave unto the people. (3 Kings xix. 21.) Neither can he win it which hath married a wife and therefore cannot come, for “he that is unmarried careth for the things that belong to the Lord, how he may please the Lord but he that is married careth for the things that are of the world, how he may please his wife.” (1 Cor. vii. 32, 33.) Not that this is to be taken for blame of marriage, but only that virginity is the more honourable way, since “the unmarried woman” and the widow “careth for the things of the Lord, that she may be holy both in body and in spirit.” (34-)

℟. One Seraph cried unto another: * Holy, Holy, Holy is the Lord God of hosts; the whole earth is full of His glory.
℣. There are Three That bear record in heaven: the Father, the Word, and the Holy Ghost, and these Three are One.
℟. Holy, Holy, Holy is the Lord God of hosts.
℣. Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, * and to the Holy Ghost.
℟. The whole earth is full of His glory.

Lesson IX
But in all fairness, having thus spoken concerning widows, let us betake ourselves again among the married, and join with them in entertaining the opinion which is held by so many, that there are only three classes of men who are shut out from the great supper named in the gospel, which three classes are Heathens, Jews, and Heretics. And therefore it is that the Apostle warneth us that we “walk not as other Gentiles walk,” in malice and bitterness, and uncleanness, and covetousness, and so have no entry into the kingdom of Christ, since “no unclean person, nor covetous man, who is an idolater, hath any inheritance in the kingdom of Christ and of God.” (Eph. iv. 17, v. 5.)

[Te Deum follows]
