Monday of the Eleventh Week after Pentecost
Feria
[Tempora/Pent11-1]

Lesson I
Lesson from the second book of Kings
2 Kgs 22:1-5
Josias was eight years old when he began to reign: he reigned one and thirty years in Jerusalem: the name of his mother was Idida, the daughter of Hadaia, of Besecath. And he did that which was right in the sight of the Lord, and walked in all the ways of David his father: he turned not aside to the right hand, or to the left. And in the eighteenth year of king Josias, the king sent Saphan the son of Assia, the son of Messulam, the scribe of the temple of the Lord, saying to him: Go to Helcias the high priest, that the money may be put together which is brought into the temple of the Lord, which the doorkeepers of the temple have gathered of the people. And let it be given to the workmen by the overseers of the house of the Lord: and lot them distribute it to those that work in the temple of the Lord, to repair the temple:

℟. Remember, O Lord, thy covenant, and say unto the destroying Angel: Stay now thine hand; * That the land be not utterly laid waste, and that thou destroy not every living soul.
℣. Even I it is that have sinned, and done evil indeed; but these sheep, what have they done? Let thine anger, I pray thee, O Lord, be turned away from thy people.
℟. That the land be not utterly laid waste, and that Thou destroy not every living soul.

Lesson II
2 Kgs 22:8-10
And Helcias the high priest said to Saphan the scribe: I have found the book of the law in the house of the Lord: and Helcias gave the book to Saphan, and he read it. And Saphan the scribe came to the king, and brought him word again concerning that which he had commanded, and said: thy servants have gathered together the money that was found in the house of the Lord, and they have given it to be distributed to the workmen, by the overseers of the works of the temple of the Lord. And Saphan the scribe told the king, saying: Helcias the priest hath delivered to me a book.

℟. O Lord, Thou hast hearkened unto the prayer of thy servant, that I might build a temple unto thy Name, * O God of Israel, bless Thou, and hallow this house for ever.
℣. O Lord, Who keepest covenant with thy servants that walk before thee in all their heart.
℟. O God of Israel, bless Thou, and hallow this house for ever.

Lesson III
2 Kgs 22:10-13
And when Saphan had read it before the king, And the king had heard the words of the law of the Lord, he rent his garments. And he commanded Helcias the priest, and Ahicam the son of Saphan, and Achobor the son of Micha, and Saphan the scribe, and Asaia the king's servant, saying: Go and consult the Lord for me, and for the people, and for all Juda, concerning the words of this book which is found: for the great wrath of the Lord is kindled against us, because our fathers have not hearkened to the words of this book, to do all that is written for us.

℟. Hearken, O Lord, unto the cry and to the prayer which thy servant prayeth before thee today, that thine eyes may be open and thine ears attend; * Toward this house day and night.
℣. Look down from thine high and holy place, O Lord, even from heaven thy dwelling.
℟. Toward this house, day and night.
℣. Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, * and to the Holy Ghost.
℟. Toward this house, day and night.
