Dominica XXIV et ultima Post Pentecosten
Semiduplex
[Tempora/Pent24-0]

Lessons I–VI: from the Scripture of the day.

Lesson VII
From the Holy Gospel according to Matthew
Matt 24:15-35
At that time, Jesus said unto his disciples: When ye shall see the abomination of desolation, spoken of by Daniel the Prophet, stand in the Holy Place, (whoso readeth, let him understand.) And so on.

Homily by St. Jerome, Priest (at Bethlehem.)
Bk. IV Comm. on Matth. XXIV
This injunction to whoso readeth, to understand, showeth that there is here something mysterious. In Daniel we read as followeth: “And in the midst of the week the sacrifice and the oblations shall be taken away and in the temple there shall be the abomination of desolation, even until the consummation of the time and a consummation shall be given to the desolation.” (ix. 27.) It is of this same thing that the Apostle speaketh, when he saith that a man of iniquity, even an adversary, shall be exalted against whatsoever is called God, or is worshipped so that he shall even dare to stand in the temple of God, and to show himself as God whose coming shall, according to the working of Satan, destroy and banish away from God all who shall receive him.

℟. Blessed is the people * Whom the Lord of hosts hath blessed, saying O Israel thou art the work of Mine own hands, thou art Mine own inheritance.
℣. Blessed is the nation whose God is the Lord, and the people whom He hath chosen for His own inheritance.
℟. Whom the Lord of hosts hath blessed, saying O Israel thou art the work of Mine own hands, thou art Mine own inheritance.

Lesson VIII
This prophecy may be understood either (first) simply of Antichrist, (secondly) of the statue of Caesar, which Pilate set up in the Temple, or (thirdly) of the statue of Hadrian on horse-back, which hath stood, even until our own day, upon the site of the Holy of Holies. In the Scriptures of the Old Testament “abomination” is a word very often used for an idol, and the farther title “of desolation” is added to identify an idol erected upon the site of the desolate and ruined temple.

℟. One Seraph cried unto another: * Holy, Holy, Holy is the Lord God of hosts; the whole earth is full of His glory.
℣. There are Three That bear record in heaven: the Father, the Word, and the Holy Ghost, and these Three are One.
℟. Holy, Holy, Holy is the Lord God of hosts.
℣. Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, * and to the Holy Ghost.
℟. The whole earth is full of His glory.

Lesson IX
But we may also understand by the abomination of desolation, any bad doctrine and when we see such a thing get a standing in the Holy Place, that is, in the Church, and showing itself that it is God, that is, pretending that it is His revealed truth, then will be the time when it will be our duty to flee from Judea into the mountains, that is to say, to leave the letter, which passeth away, and all guise of Jewish superstition, and to hie us unto the everlasting hills, from whence God doth right wondrously cause His light to shine forth. (Ps. lxxv. 5.) Then will it be our duty to find ourselves under a roof and in an house, wherethrough the fiery darts of the wicked one can never pierce to smite us, and not to come down to take anything out of the house of our old conversation, or to have regard unto those things which are behind but rather to sow in the field of the spiritual Scriptures, that we may reap thereof a bountiful harvest neither to have two coats, that thing forbidden to Apostles. (Matth. x. 10.)

[Te Deum follows]
