Thursday of the Fifth Week after Pentecost
Feria
[Tempora/Pent05-4]

Lesson I
Lesson from the second book of Samuel
2 Sam 6:1-3
And David again gathered together all the chosen men of Israel, thirty thousand. And David arose and went, with all the people that were with him of the men of Juda to fetch the ark of God, upon which the name of the Lord of hosts is invoked, who sitteth over it upon the cherubims. And they laid the ark of God upon a new cart: and took it out of the house of Abinadab, who was in Gabaa: and Oza, and Ahio, the sons of Abinadab, drove the new cart.

℟. Prepare your hearts unto the Lord, and serve Him Only * And He will deliver you out of the hand of your enemies.
℣. Return unto Him with all your hearts, and put away the strange gods from among you.
℟. And He will deliver you out of the hand of your enemies.

Lesson II
2 Sam 6:4-7
And when they had taken it out of the house of Abinadab, who was in Gabaa, Ahio having care of the ark of God went before the ark. But David and all Israel played before the Lord on all manner of instruments made of wood, on harps and lutes and timbrels and cornets and cymbals. And when they came to the floor of Nachon, Oza put forth his hand to the ark of God, and took hold of it: because the oxen kicked and made it lean aside. And the indignation of the Lord was enkindled against Oza, and he struck him for his rashness: and he died there before the ark of God.

℟. God, Which heareth all, even He sent His Angel, and took me from keeping my father's sheep, and * Anointed me with the oil of His mercy.
℣. The Lord That delivered me out of the mouth of the lion, and out of the paw of the bear
℟. And anointed me with the oil of His mercy.

Lesson III
2 Sam 6:8-12
And David was grieved because the Lord had struck Oza, and the name of that place was called: The striking of Oza, to this day. And David was afraid of the Lord that day, saying: How shall the ark of the Lord come to me? And he would not have the ark of the Lord brought in to himself into the city of David: but he caused it to be carried into the house of Obededom the Gethite. And the ark of the Lord abode in the house of Obededom the Gethite three months: and the Lord blessed Obededom, and all his household. And it was told king David, that the Lord had blessed Obededom, and all that he had, because of the ark of God. So David went, and brought away the ark of God out of the house of Obededom into the city of David with joy. And there were with David seven choirs, and calves for victims.

℟. The Lord That delivered me out of the mouth of the lion, and out of the paw of the bear * He will deliver me out of the hand of mine enemies.
℣. God hath sent forth His mercy and His truth, and delivered my soul from among the lion's whelps.
℟. He will deliver me out of the hand of mine enemies.
℣. Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, * and to the Holy Ghost.
℟. He will deliver me out of the hand of mine enemies.
