Twenty-third Sunday after Pentecost
Semiduplex
[Tempora/Pent23-0]

Lessons I–VI: from the Scripture of the day.

Lesson VII
From the Holy Gospel according to Matthew
Matt 9:18-26
At that time: While Jesus spake these things unto the multitudes, behold, there came a certain ruler, and worshipped Him, saying Lord, my daughter is even now dead. And so on.

Homily by St. Jerome, Priest (at Bethlehem.)
Bk. I Comment. on Matth. IX
The eighth miracle took place upon the occasion when a certain ruler, desiring not to be kept out of the mystery of the true circumcision, besought Christ to recall his daughter to life. But a woman, which was diseased with an issue of blood, thrust herself in, and her cure occupieth the eighth place, so that the resurrection of the ruler's daughter is postponed and made the ninth in enumeration even as it is written in the Psalms: “Ethiopia shall soon stretch forth her hands unto God.” (lxvii. 32.) And again: “Blindness in part is happened to Israel, until the fullness of the Gentiles is come in and so all Israel shall be saved.” (Rom. xi. 25, 26.)

℟. Blessed is the people * Whom the Lord of hosts hath blessed, saying O Israel thou art the work of Mine own hands, thou art Mine own inheritance.
℣. Blessed is the nation whose God is the Lord, and the people whom He hath chosen for His own inheritance.
℟. Whom the Lord of hosts hath blessed, saying O Israel thou art the work of Mine own hands, thou art Mine own inheritance.

Lesson VIII
And, behold, a woman, which was diseased with an issue of blood, twelve years, came behind Him, and touched the hem of His garment.” In the Gospel according to Luke (viii. 42) it is written that the ruler's daughter was about twelve years of age. Note therefore that this woman, who typifies the Gentiles, had been diseased for the same time that the Jewish nation, typified by the ruler's daughter, had been living in faith. We see not clearly the hideousness of evil, until we compare it with good.

℟. One Seraph cried unto another: * Holy, Holy, Holy is the Lord God of hosts; the whole earth is full of His glory.
℣. There are Three That bear record in heaven: the Father, the Word, and the Holy Ghost, and these Three are One.
℟. Holy, Holy, Holy is the Lord God of hosts.
℣. Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, * and to the Holy Ghost.
℟. The whole earth is full of His glory.

Lesson IX
This woman with the issue of blood came not to the Lord in an house or in a city, for such as she were by the Law banished out of cities, (Lev. xv. 25,) but in the way, as He walked so that the Lord healed one, even while He was on the road to heal another. Whence also the Apostles said: “It was necessary that the word of God should first have been spoken to you but, seeing ye put it from you, and judge yourselves unworthy of everlasting life, lo, we turn to the Gentiles.” (Acts xiii. 46.)

[Te Deum follows]
