Thirteenth Sunday after Pentecost
Semiduplex
[Tempora/Pent13-0]

Lessons I–VI: from the Scripture of the day.

Lesson VII
From the Holy Gospel according to Luke
Luke 17:11-19
It came to pass, as Jesus went to Jerusalem, that He passed through the midst of Samaria and Galilee. And, as He entered into a certain village, there met Him ten men that were lepers. And so on.

Homily by St. Augustine, Bishop of Hippo
Bk. ii, Gospel Questions, ch. 40
The ten lepers “lifted up their voices and said: Jesus, Master, have mercy on us. And when He saw them, He said unto them: Go, show yourselves unto the Priests. And it came to pass that, as they went, they were cleansed.” Question: why did the Lord send them unto the Priests, that, as they went, they might be cleansed? Lepers were the only class among those upon whose bodies He worked mercy, whom we find that He sent unto the Priests. It is written in another place that He said to a leper whom He had cleansed: “Go, and show thyself to the Priest, and offer for thy cleansing according as Moses commanded, for a testimony unto them” (Luke v. 14, Lev. xiv. seq.) We ask then, of what leprosy was a type, whereof they that were ridded were called, not “healed,” but “cleansed.” It is a disease which doth first appear in the skin, but destroyeth not immediately the strength, nor the use of feeling and the limbs.

℟. O that Thou wouldest hide me in the grave; that Thou wouldest keep me secret, until thy wrath be past, even thine, O Lord, Thou That alone art God; * That Thou wouldest appoint me a set time, and remember me!
℣. Are thy days as the days of man, that Thou inquirest after mine iniquity, and there is none that can deliver out of thine hand.
℟. That Thou wouldest appoint me a set time, and remember me!

Lesson VIII
The lepers, therefore, we may not absurdly suppose such to be figured as have not the knowledge of the true faith, but do show forth diverse-coloured teachings of error. They hide not their witlessness, but do use all such wit as they have to make it manifest, and proclaim it in high-sounding phrases. There is no false doctrine but hath some truth mixed up with it. A man's discourse then, with some truths in it unequally mingled with falsehoods, and all confounded in one mass, is like to the body of one that is stricken with leprosy, whereon all manner of foul colours do appear in this and that place along with the true colour of skin.

℟. One Seraph cried unto another: * Holy, Holy, Holy is the Lord God of hosts; the whole earth is full of His glory.
℣. There are Three That bear record in heaven: the Father, the Word, and the Holy Ghost, and these Three are One.
℟. Holy, Holy, Holy is the Lord God of hosts.
℣. Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, * and to the Holy Ghost.
℟. The whole earth is full of His glory.

Lesson IX
Such men as these are banished out of the walls of the Church, to the end that haply when they stand afar off they may lift up their voices and cry to Christ for pardon, just as those ten men that were lepers, which stood afar off, outside the village, lifted up their voices and said “Jesus, Master, have mercy on us.” That they styled Him Master, by which title I know not if any besought the Lord for bodily healing, I think doth sufficiently show that leprosy signifieth false doctrine, whereof the Good Master doth cleanse us.

[Te Deum follows]
