Friday of the Ninth Week after Pentecost
Feria
[Tempora/Pent09-5]

Lesson I
Lesson from the second book of Kings
2 Kgs 8:1-3
And Eliseus spoke to the woman, whose son he had restored to life, saying: Arise, and go thou and thy household, and sojourn wheresoever thou canst find: for the Lord hath exiled a famine, and it shall come upon the land seven years. And she arose, and did according to the word of the man of God: and going with her household, she sojourned in the land of the Philistines many days. And when the seven years were ended, the woman returned out of the land of the Philistines, and she went forth to speak to the king for her house, and for her lands.

℟. Saul hath slain his thousands, and David his ten thousands. * Because the hand of the Lord was with him, he smote the Philistine, and took away the reproach from Israel.
℣. Is not this David? Did they not sing one to another of him in dances, saying: Saul hath slain his thousands, and David his ten thousands?
℟. Because the hand of the Lord was with him, he smote the Philistine, and took away the reproach from Israel.

Lesson II
2 Kgs 8:4-6
And the king talked with Giezi, the servant of the man of God, saying: Tell me all the great things that Eliseus hath done. And when he was telling the king how he had raised one dead to life, the woman appeared, whose son he had restored to life, crying to the king for her house, and her lands. And Giezi said: My lord O king, this is the woman, and this is her son, whom Eliseus raised to life. And the king asked the woman: and she told him. And the king appointed her an eunuch, saying: Restore her all that is hers, and all the revenues of the lands, from the day that she left the land, to this present.

℟. Ye mountains of Gilboa, let there be no dew, neither let there be rain upon you * For there are the mighty of Israel fallen.
℣. All ye mountains that stand round about, the Lord look upon you but let Him pass by Gilboa
℟. For there are the mighty of Israel fallen.

Lesson III
2 Kgs 8:7-10
Eliseus also came to Damascus, and Benadad king of Syria was sick: and they told him, saying: The man of God is come hither. And the king said to Hazael: Take with thee presents, and go to meet the man of God, and consult the Lord by him, saying: Can I recover of this my illness? And Hazael went to meet him, taking with him presents, and all the good things of Damascus, the burdens of forty camels. And when he stood before him, he said: thy son Benadad the king of Syria hath sent me to thee, saying: Can I recover of this my illness? And Eliseus said to him: Go tell him: Thou shalt recover: but the Lord hath shown me that he shall surely die.

℟. Thus saith the Lord: I took thee out of thy father's house, and appointed thee to be ruler over My people, over Israel. * And I was with thee whithersoever thou wentest, to establish thy kingdom for ever.
℣. And I have made thee a great name, like unto the name of the great men that are in the earth, and have caused thee to rest from all thine enemies.
℟. And I was with thee whithersoever thou wentest, to establish thy kingdom for ever.
℣. Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, * and to the Holy Ghost.
℟. And I was with thee whithersoever thou wentest, to establish thy kingdom for ever.
