Sixth Day within the Octave of the Sacred Heart
Semiduplex
[Tempora/Pent03-3]

Lesson I
Lesson from the first book of Samuel
1 Sam 13:1-4
Saul was a child of one year when he began to reign, and he reigned two years over Israel. And Saul chose him three thousand men of Israel: and two thousand were with Saul in Machmas, and in mount Bethel: and a thousand with Jonathan in Gabaa of Benjamin, and the rest of the people he sent back every man to their dwellings. And Jonathan smote the garrison of the Philistines which was in Gabaa. And when the Philistines had heard of it, Saul sounded the trumpet over all the land, saying: Let the Hebrews hear. And all Israel heard this report: Saul hath smitten the garrison of the Philistines: and Israel took courage against the Philistines. And the people were called together after Saul to Galgal.

℟. I will make an everlasting Covenant with them, and I will not cease from doing them good, and I will put my fear in their hearts, * So that they shall not depart from me.
℣. Yea, I will rejoice over them, to do them good with my whole Heart.
℟. So that they shall not depart from me.

Lesson II
1 Sam 13:5-8
The Philistines also were assembled to fight against Israel, thirty thousand chariots, and six thousand horsemen, and a multitude of people besides, like the sand on the sea shore for number. And going up they camped in Machmas at the east of Bethaven. And when the men of Israel saw that they were straitened, (for the people were distressed,) they hid themselves in caves, and in thickets, and in rocks, and in dens, and in pits. And some of the Hebrews passed over the Jordan into the land of Gad and Galaad. And when Saul was yet in Galgal, all the people that followed him were greatly afraid. And he waited seven days according to the appointment of Samuel, and Samuel came not to Galgal, and the people slipt away from him.

℟. It was not an open enemy that has done me this dishonour, for then I could have borne it, * But it was even thou, mine own familiar friend, who did also eat of my Bread.
℣. Neither was it mine adversary that did magnify himself against me, for then peradventure I would have hid myself from him.
℟. But it was even thou, mine own familiar friend, who did also eat of my Bread.

Lesson III
1 Sam 13:9-14
Then Saul said: Bring me the holocaust, and the peace offerings. And he offered the holocaust. And when he had made an end of offering the holocaust, behold Samuel came: and Saul went forth to meet him and salute him. And Samuel said to him: What hast thou done? Saul answered: Because I saw that the people slipt from me, and thou wast not come according to the days appointed, and the Philistines were gathered together in Machmas, I said: Now will the Philistines come down upon me to Galgal, and I have not appeased the face of the Lord. Forced by necessity, I offered the holocaust. And Samuel said to Saul: Thou hast done foolishly, and hast not kept the commandments of the Lord thy God, which he commanded thee. And if thou hadst not done thus, the Lord would now have established thy kingdom over Israel for ever. But thy kingdom shall not continue. The Lord hath sought him a man according to his own heart: and him hath the Lord commanded to be prince over his people, because thou hast not observed that which the Lord commanded.

℟. And we, being dead in our sins, hath God quickened together with Christ, * For his great love wherewith he hath loved us.
℣. That in the ages to come he might shew the exceeding riches of his grace.
℟. For his great love wherewith he hath loved us.
℣. Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, * and to the Holy Ghost.
℟. For his great love wherewith he hath loved us.

Lesson IV
From the Encyclical Letter of Pope Pius XI
But in what sense can it be said that our expiatory practices can give consolation to Christ, since he is now reigning in heavenly joy? We answer in the words of Saint Augustine (from a passage entirely appropriate to this subject): Give me a lover, and he will feel the truth of what I say. Every soul which is on fire with the love of God, if it but turns its thoughts to the past, doth in its meditation perceive and contemplate Christ suffering for mankind; afflicted by grief in the midst of sorrows endured for us men and for our salvation; almost overcome by afflictions, vexations, and reproaches; yea, bruised by our sins; with whose stripes we are healed. And devout souls will have an appreciation in proportion to their understanding of these mysteries, if they perceive that the sins and crimes of men (no matter when committed) were the real reason why the Son of God was condemned to death, and that sins committed in this present are able in some wise to cause the death of Christ, renewing as they do, the cause of that selfsame death, with its sufferings and agonies, which was accomplished on the Cross; for every sin must be said to renew, in some fashion, the Lord's passion, concerning which we read in the Scriptures: They crucify themselves the Son of God afresh, and put him to an open shame.

℟. The Lord is nigh unto all them that call upon him, * Yea, unto all such as call upon him faithfully.
℣. The Lord is full of compassion and mercy, long-suffering and of great goodness.
℟. Yea, unto all such as call upon him faithfully.

Lesson V
And since in the agony in the Garden the soul of Christ became sorrowful even unto death, in view of our own future sins which were foreseen by him, there can be no doubt that at the same time he was in some way consoled, through the provision of our acts of reparation, when the Angel from heaven appeared unto him to comfort him in the sorrows of his Heart, which was so bowed down with weariness and grief. And so, even at this present time, we can and we ought to console, in a mystical but nonetheless real manner, that most Sacred Heart: which same is being wounded continually by the sins of thankless men. It is in this sense, namely, that Christ is grieved over his abandonment by his friends that we are accustomed to interpret the holy liturgy whenever we say in the words of the Psalmist: Thy rebuke hath broken my Heart; I am full of heaviness; I looked for some to have pity on me, but there was no man, neither found I any to comfort me.

℟. I thank thee, O Father, Lord of heaven and earth, because thou hast hid these things from the wise and prudent; * Yea, thou hast revealed them unto babes.
℣. Even so, Father, for so it seemed good in thy sight.
℟. Yea, thou hast revealed them unto babes.

Lesson VI
To the foregoing we should add that the expiatory passion of Christ is renewed, and in a certain manner continued, in his mystical body, which same is the Church. In this connection, once more the words of Saint Augustine are appropriate: Christ suffered all that he needed to suffer; nothing at all is lacking in the number of his sufferings; therefore his sufferings are completed in him as the Head; but there remaineth even yet the sufferings of Christ to be endured in the body. Which truth verily the Lord Jesus himself made known, at the time that Saul was breathing out threatenings and slaughter against the disciples, to whom the Lord said: I am Jesus whom thou persecutest. By these words he plainly affirmed that persecutions visited on the Church are in reality directed against the Head of the Church. Meet it is therefore that Christ, thus still suffering in his mystical body, should desire to have us sharers in his own work of expiation, even as our own need moveth us to desire and seek union with him. And since we are the body of Christ, and members of his very flesh and bones, whatever the Head must suffer all the members of the body must needs suffer together with him.

℟. All nations whom thou hast made shall come, * And they shall worship thee, O Lord.
℣. Yea, they shall glorify thy Name, for thou art great, and doest wondrous things.
℟. And they shall worship thee, O Lord.
℣. Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, * and to the Holy Ghost.
℟. And they shall worship thee, O Lord.

Lesson VII
From the Holy Gospel according to John
John 19:31-37
At that time: The Jews, because it was the Preparation, that the bodies should not remain upon the cross on the Sabbath Day, for that Sabbath Day was an high day, besought Pilate that their legs might broken, and that they might be taken away. And so on.

A Homily by St. Peter Canisius the Priest
Exhortationes domesticæ. Medit. 6-7
Have thou all diligence to turn over in thy mind this matter, namely, That he, who is God over all, endured with unutterable charity, a most bitter death on the Cross, in the exceeding anguish of his Heart, whilst the whole world mocked him! And this he did for thee, who art but a paltry little worm! Meditate on the boundless generosity which Christ the Preserver manifested to all his own people. For at one time, standing in the midst of the people, he cried out: If any man thirst, let him come to me and drink; thereby shewing how ready he was to welcome everyone, and help him in his every need. Consider how freely he giveth thee to drink of his Heart's precious blood, considering that his sacred side was set open, wherefrom he poured forth whatever blood was still left in his body.

℟. If I be lifted up, * I will draw all men unto me.
℣. This he said, signifying what death he should die.
℟. I will draw all men unto me.

Lesson VIII
In Evang. Dominica I post Pascha
And so that I may not be utterly ungrateful, often I call up before mine eyes those perennial fountains of gifts and of all good things, since from them that most sweet promise standeth out: Ye shall draw waters with joy out of the founts of the Saviour, and ye shall say in that day: Praise ye the Lord. There will I flee, to those thrice-blest holes in the rock which can never be demolished; there will I build for myself a most durable nest, holding nothing better, in all sorrows and perils that befall me, than to think on the wounds of the Lord.

℟. Be ye therefore followers of God; * And walk ye therefore in love.
℣. For Christ also hath loved us and hath given himself for us.
℟. And walk ye therefore in love.
℣. Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, * and to the Holy Ghost.
℟. And walk ye therefore in love.

Lesson IX
Medit. 6
Therefore in every trial do thou flee quickly to the lovable Heart of Christ, and call to mind his goodness and charity, setting them in contrast to thine own vileness, malice, unfaithfulness, and pride. For consider how great was the charity of Christ in inviting all men unto himself: Come unto me, all ye that travail and are heavy laden, and I will refresh you. It is with this intent that he offereth himself to us, ready and desirous, out of love for us, to carry the burdens of each and all! Cast then thy sins into the abyss of his charity, and straightway thou shalt find thyself lightened of thy load.

[Te Deum follows]
