Monday of the Fifth Week after Pentecost
Feria
[Tempora/Pent05-1]

Lesson I
Lesson from the second book of Samuel
2 Sam 2:1-4
And after these things David consulted the Lord, saying: Shall I go up into one of the cities of Juda? And the Lord said to him: Go up. And David said: Whither shall I go up? And he answered him: Into Hebron. So David went up, and his two wives, Achinoam the Jezrahelitess, and Abigail the wife of Nabal of Carmel: And the men also that were with him, David brought up every man with his household: and they abode in the towns of Hebron. And the men of Juda came, and anointed David there, to be king over the house of Juda.

℟. Remember, O Lord, thy covenant, and say unto the destroying Angel: Stay now thine hand; * That the land be not utterly laid waste, and that thou destroy not every living soul.
℣. Even I it is that have sinned, and done evil indeed; but these sheep, what have they done? Let thine anger, I pray thee, O Lord, be turned away from thy people.
℟. That the land be not utterly laid waste, and that Thou destroy not every living soul.

Lesson II
2 Sam 2:4-7
And it was told David, that the men of Jabes Galaad had buried Saul. David therefore sent messengers to the men of Jabes Galaad, and said to them: Blessed be you to the Lord, who have shown this mercy to your master Saul, and have buried him. And now the Lord surely will render you mercy and truth, and I also will, requite you for this good turn, because you have done this thing. Let your hands be strengthened, and be ye men of valour: for although your master Saul be dead, yet the house of Juda hath anointed me to be their king

℟. O Lord, Thou hast hearkened unto the prayer of thy servant, that I might build a temple unto thy Name, * O God of Israel, bless Thou, and hallow this house for ever.
℣. O Lord, Who keepest covenant with thy servants that walk before thee in all their heart.
℟. O God of Israel, bless Thou, and hallow this house for ever.

Lesson III
2 Sam 2:8-11
But Abner the son of Ner, general of Saul's army, took Isboseth the son of Saul, and led him about through the camp? And made him king over Galaad, and, over Gessuri, and over Jezrahel, and over Ephraim, and over Benjamin, and over all Israel. Isboseth the son of Saul was forty years old when he began to reign over, Israel, and he reigned two years: and only the house of Juda followed David. And the number of the days that David abode, reigning in Hebron over the house of Juda, was seven years and six months.

℟. Hearken, O Lord, unto the cry and to the prayer which thy servant prayeth before thee today, that thine eyes may be open and thine ears attend; * Toward this house day and night.
℣. Look down from thine high and holy place, O Lord, even from heaven thy dwelling.
℟. Toward this house, day and night.
℣. Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, * and to the Holy Ghost.
℟. Toward this house, day and night.
