Saturday of the Eighth Week after Pentecost
Feria
[Tempora/Pent08-6]

Lesson I
Lesson from the first book of Kings
1 Kgs 18:21-22
And Elias coming to all the people, said: How long do you halt between two sides? if the Lord be God, follow him: but if Baal, then follow him. And the people did not answer him a word. And Elias said again to the people: I only remain a prophet of the Lord: but the prophets of Baal are four hundred and fifty men.

℟. My sins are many, yea, they are more in number than the sands of the sea; I am not worthy to look up toward heaven because of the multitude of my iniquities; for I have provoked thee to anger; * And done evil in thy sight.
℣. For I acknowledge my transgression, and my sin is ever before me, for against thee only have I sinned.
℟. And done evil in thy sight.

Lesson II
1 Kgs 18:23-24
Let two bullocks be given us, and let them choose one bullock for themselves, and cut it in pieces and lay it upon wood, but put no fire under: and I will dress the other bullock, and lay it on wood, and put no fire under it. Call ye on the names of your gods, and I will call on the name of my Lord: and the God that shall answer by fire, let him be God. And all the people answering said: A very good proposal.

℟. O Lord, Thou hast hearkened unto the prayer of thy servant, that I might build a temple unto thy Name, * O God of Israel, bless Thou, and hallow this house for ever.
℣. O Lord, Who keepest covenant with thy servants that walk before thee in all their heart.
℟. O God of Israel, bless Thou, and hallow this house for ever.

Lesson III
1 Kgs 18:25-27
Then Elias said to the prophets of Baal: Choose you one bullock and dress it first, because you are many: and call on the names of your gods, but put no fire under. And they took the bullock which he gave them, and dressed it: and they called on the name of Baal from morning even till noon, saying: O Baal, hear us. But there was no voice, nor any that answered: and they leaped over the altar that they had made. And when it was now noon, Elias jested at them, saying: Cry with a louder voice: for he is a God, and perhaps he is talking, or is in an inn, or on a journey, or perhaps he is asleep, and must be awaked.

℟. Hearken, O Lord, unto the cry and to the prayer which thy servant prayeth before thee today, that thine eyes may be open and thine ears attend; * Toward this house day and night.
℣. Look down from thine high and holy place, O Lord, even from heaven thy dwelling.
℟. Toward this house, day and night.
℣. Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, * and to the Holy Ghost.
℟. Toward this house, day and night.
