Monday of the Seventh Week after Pentecost
Feria
[Tempora/Pent07-1]

Lesson I
Lesson from the first book of Kings
1 Kgs 1:28-31
And King David answered and said: Call to me Bethsabee. And when she was come in to the king, and stood before him, The king swore and said: As the Lord liveth, who hath delivered my soul out of all distress, Even as I swore to thee by the Lord the God of Israel, saying: Solomon thy son shall reign after me, and he shall sit upon my throne in my stead, so will I do this day. And Bethsabee bowing with her face to the earth worshipped the king, saying: May my lord David live for ever

℟. Remember, O Lord, thy covenant, and say unto the destroying Angel: Stay now thine hand; * That the land be not utterly laid waste, and that thou destroy not every living soul.
℣. Even I it is that have sinned, and done evil indeed; but these sheep, what have they done? Let thine anger, I pray thee, O Lord, be turned away from thy people.
℟. That the land be not utterly laid waste, and that Thou destroy not every living soul.

Lesson II
1 Kgs 1:32-35
King David also said: Call me Sadoc the priest, and Nathan the prophet, and Banaias the son of Joiada. And when they were come in before the king, He said to them: Take with you the servants of your lord, and set my son Solomon upon my mule: and bring him to Gihon. And let Sadoc the priest, and Nathan the prophet anoint him there king over Israel: and you shall sound the trumpet, and shall say: God save king Solomon. And you shall come up after him, and he shall come, and shall sit upon my throne, and he shall reign in my stead: and I will appoint him to be ruler over Israel, and over Juda.

℟. O Lord, Thou hast hearkened unto the prayer of thy servant, that I might build a temple unto thy Name, * O God of Israel, bless Thou, and hallow this house for ever.
℣. O Lord, Who keepest covenant with thy servants that walk before thee in all their heart.
℟. O God of Israel, bless Thou, and hallow this house for ever.

Lesson III
1 Kgs 1:38-40
So Sadoc the priest, and Nathan the prophet went down, and Banaias the son of Joiada, and the Cerethi, and Phelethi: and they set Solomon upon the mule of king David, and brought him to Gihon. And Sadoc the priest took a horn of oil out of the tabernacle, and anointed Solomon: and they sounded the trumpet, and all the people said: God save king Solomon. And all the multitude went up after him, and the people played with pipes, and rejoiced with a great joy, and the earth rang with the noise of their cry.

℟. Hearken, O Lord, unto the cry and to the prayer which thy servant prayeth before thee today, that thine eyes may be open and thine ears attend; * Toward this house day and night.
℣. Look down from thine high and holy place, O Lord, even from heaven thy dwelling.
℟. Toward this house, day and night.
℣. Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, * and to the Holy Ghost.
℟. Toward this house, day and night.
