Tuesday of the Ninth Week after Pentecost
Feria
[Tempora/Pent09-2]

Lesson I
Lesson from the second book of Kings
2 Kgs 3:6-9
And king Joram went out that day from Samaria, and mustered all Israel. And he sent to Josaphat king of Juda, saying: The king of Moab is revolted from me, come with me against him to battle. And he answered: I will come up: he that is mine, is thine: my people, thy people: and my horses, thy horses. And he said: Which way shall we go up? But he answered: By the desert of Edom. So the king of Israel, and the king of Juda, and the king of Edom went, and they fetched a compass of seven days' journey, and there was no water for the army, and for the beasts, that followed them.

℟. Lord, when thy people shall turn again to thee, and shall pray unto thee in this house; * Then hear Thou in heaven, O Lord, and deliver them out of the hand of their enemies.
℣. If thy people sin against thee, and turn again, and repent, and come and pray unto thee in this house.
℟. Then hear Thou in heaven, O Lord, and deliver them out of the hand of their enemies.

Lesson II
2 Kgs 3:10-13
And the king of Israel said: Alas, alas, alas, the Lord hath gathered us three kings together, to deliver us into the hands of Moab! And Josaphat said: Is there not here a prophet of the Lord, that we may beseech the Lord by him? And one of the servants of the king of Israel answered: Here is Eliseus the son of Saphat, who poured water on the hands of Elias. And Josaphat said: The word of the Lord is with him. And the king of Israel, and Josaphat king of Juda, and the king of Edom went down to him. And Eliseus said to the king of Israel: What have I to do with thee? go to the prophets of thy father, and thy mother.

℟. And it came to pass when the Lord would take up Elijah into heaven by a whirlwind * Elisha cried, and said: My father, my father, the chariot of Israel, and the horsemen thereof.
℣. And as they still went on, and talked, behold, there appeared a chariot of fire, and horses of fire, and parted them both asunder, and Elijah went up by a whirlwind into heaven.
℟. Elisha cried, and said: My father, my father, the chariot of Israel, and the horsemen thereof.

Lesson III
2 Kgs 3:13-18
And the king of Israel said to him: Why hath the Lord gathered together these three kings, to deliver them into the hands of Moab? And Eliseus said to him: As the Lord of hosts liveth, in whose sight I stand, if I did not reverence the face of Josaphat king of Juda, I would not have hearkened to thee, nor looked on thee. But now bring me hither a minstrel. And when the minstrel played, the hand of the Lord came upon him, and he said: Thus saith the Lord: Make the channel of this torrent full of ditches. For thus saith the Lord: You shall not see wind, nor rain: and yet this channel shall be filled with waters, and you shall drink, you and your families, and your beasts. And this is a small thing in the sight of the Lord: moreover he will deliver also Moab into your hands.

℟. Thus saith the Lord: I took thee out of thy father's house, and appointed thee to be ruler over My people, over Israel. * And I was with thee whithersoever thou wentest, to establish thy kingdom for ever.
℣. And I have made thee a great name, like unto the name of the great men that are in the earth and have caused thee to rest from all thine enemies.
℟. And I was with thee whithersoever thou wentest, to establish thy kingdom for ever.
℣. Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, * and to the Holy Ghost.
℟. And I was with thee whithersoever thou wentest, to establish thy kingdom for ever.
