Thursday of the Fourth Week after Pentecost
Feria
[Tempora/Pent04-4]

Lesson I
Lesson from the first book of Samuel
1 Sam 19:1-3
And Saul spoke to Jonathan his son and to all his servants, that they should kill David. But Jonathan the son of Saul loved David exceedingly. And Jonathan told David, saying: Saul my father seeketh to kill thee: wherefore look to thyself, I beseech thee, in the morning, and thou shalt abide in a secret place and shalt be hid. And I will go out and stand beside my father in the field where thou art: and I will speak of thee to my father, and whatsoever I shall see, I will tell thee.

℟. Prepare your hearts unto the Lord, and serve Him Only * And He will deliver you out of the hand of your enemies.
℣. Return unto Him with all your hearts, and put away the strange gods from among you.
℟. And He will deliver you out of the hand of your enemies.

Lesson II
1 Sam 19:4-6
And Jonathan spoke good things of David to Saul his father: and said to him: Sin not, O king, against thy servant, David, because he hath not sinned against thee, and his works are very good towards thee. And he put his life in his hand, and slew the Philistine, and the Lord wrought great salvation for all Israel. Thou sawest it and didst rejoice. Why therefore wilt thou sin against innocent blood by killing David, who is without fault? And when Saul heard this he was appeased with the words of Jonathan, and swore: As the Lord liveth he shall not be slain.

℟. God, Which heareth all, even He sent His Angel, and took me from keeping my father's sheep, and * Anointed me with the oil of His mercy.
℣. The Lord That delivered me out of the mouth of the lion, and out of the paw of the bear
℟. And anointed me with the oil of His mercy.

Lesson III
1 Sam 19:8-10
And the war began again, and David went out and fought against the Philistines, and defeated them with a great slaughter, and they fled from his face. And the evil spirit from the Lord came upon Saul, and he sat in his house, and held a spear in his hand: and David played with his hand. And Saul endeavoured to nail David to the wall with his spear. And David slipt away out of the presence of Saul: and the spear missed him, and was fastened in the wall, and David fled and escaped that night.

℟. The Lord That delivered me out of the mouth of the lion, and out of the paw of the bear * He will deliver me out of the hand of mine enemies.
℣. God hath sent forth His mercy and His truth, and delivered my soul from among the lion's whelps.
℟. He will deliver me out of the hand of mine enemies.
℣. Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, * and to the Holy Ghost.
℟. He will deliver me out of the hand of mine enemies.
