Twelfth Sunday after Pentecost
Semiduplex
[Tempora/Pent12-0]

Lessons I–VI: from the Scripture of the day.

Lesson VII
From the Holy Gospel according to Luke
Luke 10:23-37
At that time, Jesus said unto His disciples: Blessed are the eyes which see the things that ye see. For I tell you that many prophets and kings have desired to see those things which ye see, and have not seen them. And so on.

Homily by the Venerable Bede, Priest (at Jarrow.)
Bk. iii. ch. 43 on Luke x.
Blessed were the eyes not of Scribes and Pharisees, which saw but the Body of the Lord, but those eyes, eyes blessed indeed, which were able to see those things whereof it is written “Thou hast hid these things from the wise and prudent, and hast revealed them unto babes.” Blessed are the eyes of those little ones unto whom it seemeth good in the eyes of the Son to reveal Himself and the Father also. Abraham rejoiced to see the day of Christ and he saw it, and was glad. (John viii. 56.) Isaiah, and Micah, and many among the Prophets, saw the glory of the Lord, wherefore also they be called Seers, but all they beheld it and hailed it afar off, seeing but as through a glass, darkly. (1 Cor. xiii. 12.)

℟. O Lord, Father and God of my life, leave me not to evil counsels; give me not a proud look, but turn away from me an haughty mind, O Lord turn away from me concupiscence, * And give me not over unto an impudent and froward mind, O Lord!
℣. Leave me not, O Lord, lest mine ignorance increase, and my sins abound.
℟. And give me not over unto an impudent and froward mind, O Lord.

Lesson VIII
Otherwise were the Apostles, who saw the Lord face to Face, eating with Him, and learning from Him by asking whatsoever they listed. For them there was no need to be taught by Angels, or the shifting fabric of visions. They whom Luke doth call Prophets and kings, Matthew nameth as “Prophets and righteous men” (xiii. 17.) Righteous men are indeed mighty kings, who know how to lord it over their own rebellious temptations, instead of falling under them to become their slaves.

℟. One Seraph cried unto another: * Holy, Holy, Holy is the Lord God of hosts; the whole earth is full of His glory.
℣. There are Three That bear record in heaven: the Father, the Word, and the Holy Ghost, and these Three are One.
℟. Holy, Holy, Holy is the Lord God of hosts.
℣. Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, * and to the Holy Ghost.
℟. The whole earth is full of His glory.

Lesson IX
“And, behold, a certain lawyer stood up, and tempted Him, saying Master, what shall I do to inherit eternal life?” This lawyer, who stood up to ask the Lord a tempting question touching eternal life, took the subject of his asking, as I think, from the words which the Lord had just uttered, when He said “Rejoice, because your names are written in heaven”. But his attempt was a proof of the truth of that which the Lord immediately added “I thank thee, O Father, Lord of heaven and earth, that Thou hast hid these things from the wise and prudent, and hast revealed them unto babes!”

[Te Deum follows]
