Wednesday of the Eighth Week after Pentecost
Feria
[Tempora/Pent08-3]

Lesson I
Lesson from the first book of Kings
1 Kgs 11:26-28
Jeroboam also the son of Nabat an Ephrathite of Sareda, a servant of Solomon, whose mother was named Sarua, a widow woman, lifted up his hand against the king. And this is the cause of his rebellion against him, for Solomon built Mello, and filled up the breach of the city of David his father. And Jeroboam was a valiant and mighty man: and Solomon seeing him a young man ingenious and industrious, made him chief over the tributes of all the house of Joseph.

℟. My sins are many, yea, they are more in number than the sands of the sea; I am not worthy to look up toward heaven because of the multitude of my iniquities; for I have provoked thee to anger; * And done evil in thy sight.
℣. For I acknowledge my transgression, and my sin is ever before me, for against thee only have I sinned.
℟. And done evil in thy sight.

Lesson II
1 Kgs 11:29-31
So it came to pass at that time, that Jeroboam went out of Jerusalem, and the prophet Ahias the Silonite, clad with a new garment, found him in the way: and they two were alone in the field. And Ahias taking his new garment, wherewith he was clad, divided it into twelve parts: And he said to Jeroboam: Take to thee ten pieces: for thus saith the Lord the God of Israel: Behold I will rend the kingdom out of the hand of Solomon, and will give thee ten tribes.

℟. O Lord, Thou hast hearkened unto the prayer of thy servant, that I might build a temple unto thy Name, * O God of Israel, bless Thou, and hallow this house for ever.
℣. O Lord, Who keepest covenant with thy servants that walk before thee in all their heart.
℟. O God of Israel, bless Thou, and hallow this house for ever.

Lesson III
1 Kgs 11:40-43
Solomon therefore sought to kill Jeroboam: but he arose, and fled into Egypt to Sesac the king of Egypt, and was in Egypt till the death of Solomon. And the rest of the words of Solomon, and all that he did, and his wisdom: behold they are all written in the book of the words of the days of Solomon. And the days that Solomon reigned in Jerusalem over all Israel, were forty years. And Solomon slept with his fathers, and was buried in the city of David his father, and Roboam his son reigned in his stead.

℟. Hearken, O Lord, unto the cry and to the prayer which thy servant prayeth before thee today, that thine eyes may be open and thine ears attend; * Toward this house day and night.
℣. Look down from thine high and holy place, O Lord, even from heaven thy dwelling.
℟. Toward this house, day and night.
℣. Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, * and to the Holy Ghost.
℟. Toward this house, day and night.
