Thursday of the Eleventh Week after Pentecost
Feria
[Tempora/Pent11-4]

Lesson I
Lesson from the second book of Kings
2 Kgs 23:36-37; 24:1
Joakim was five and twenty years old when he began to reign: and he reigned eleven years in Jerusalem: the name of his mother was Zebida the daughter of Phadaia of Ruma. And he did evil before the Lord according to all that his fathers had done. In his days Nabuchodonosor king of Babylon came up, and Joakim became his servant three years: then again he rebelled against him.

℟. Prepare your hearts unto the Lord, and serve Him Only * And He will deliver you out of the hand of your enemies.
℣. Return unto Him with all your hearts, and put away the strange gods from among you.
℟. And He will deliver you out of the hand of your enemies.

Lesson II
2 Kgs 24:2-4
And the Lord sent against him the rovers of the Chaldees, and the rovers of Syria, and the rovers of Moab, and the rovers of the children of Ammon: and he sent them against Juda, to destroy it, according to the word of the Lord, which he had spoken by his servants the prophets. And this came by the word of the Lord against Juda, to remove them from before him for all the sins of Manasses which he did. And for the innocent blood that he shed, filling Jerusalem with innocent blood: and therefore the Lord would not be appeased

℟. God, Which heareth all, even He sent His Angel, and took me from keeping my father's sheep, and * Anointed me with the oil of His mercy.
℣. The Lord That delivered me out of the mouth of the lion, and out of the paw of the bear
℟. And anointed me with the oil of His mercy.

Lesson III
2 Kgs 24:5-7
But the rest of the acts of Joakim, and all that he did, are they not written in the book of the words of the days of the kings of Juda? And Joakim slept with his fathers: And Joachin his son reigned in his stead. And the king of Egypt came not again any more out of his own country: for the king of Babylon had taken all that had belonged to the king of Egypt, from the river of Egypt, unto the river Euphrates

℟. The Lord That delivered me out of the mouth of the lion, and out of the paw of the bear * He will deliver me out of the hand of mine enemies.
℣. God hath sent forth His mercy and His truth, and delivered my soul from among the lion's whelps.
℟. He will deliver me out of the hand of mine enemies.
℣. Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, * and to the Holy Ghost.
℟. He will deliver me out of the hand of mine enemies.
