Eighth Sunday after Pentecost
Semiduplex
[Tempora/Pent08-0]

Lesson I
Lesson from the first book of Kings
1 Kgs 9:1-5
And it came to pass when Solomon had finished the building of the house of the Lord, and the king's house, and all that he desired, and was pleased to do, That the Lord appeared to him the second time, as he had appeared to him in Gabaon. And the Lord said to him: I have heard thy prayer and thy supplication, which thou hast made before me: I have sanctified this house, which thou hast built, to put my name there for ever, and my eyes and my heart shall be there always. And if thou wilt walk before me, as thy father walked, in simplicity of heart, and in uprightness: and wilt do all that I have commanded thee, and wilt keep my ordinances and my judgments, I will establish the throne of thy kingdom over Israel for ever, as I promised David thy father, saying: There shall not fail a man of thy race upon the throne of Israel.

℟. Prepare your hearts unto the Lord, and serve Him Only * And He will deliver you out of the hand of your enemies.
℣. Return unto Him with all your hearts, and put away the strange gods from among you.
℟. And He will deliver you out of the hand of your enemies.

Lesson II
1 Kgs 9:6-9
But if you and your children revolting shall turn away from following me, and will not keep my commandments, and my ceremonies, which I have set before you, but will go and worship strange gods, and adore them: I will take away Israel from the face of the land which I have given them; and the temple which I have sanctified to my name, I will cast out of my sight; and Israel shall be a proverb, and a byword among all people. And this house shall be made an example of: every one that shall pass by it, shall be astonished, and shall hiss, and say: Why hath the Lord done thus to this land, and to this house: And they shall answer: Because they forsook the Lord their God, who brought their fathers out of the land of Egypt, and followed strange gods, and adored them, and worshipped them: therefore hath the Lord brought upon them all this evil.

℟. God, Which heareth all, even He sent His Angel, and took me from keeping my father's sheep, and * Anointed me with the oil of His mercy.
℣. The Lord That delivered me out of the mouth of the lion, and out of the paw of the bear
℟. And anointed me with the oil of His mercy.

Lesson III
1 Kgs 9:10-14
And when twenty years were ended after Solomon had built the two houses, that is, the house of the Lord, and the house of the king, (Hiram the king of Tyre furnishing Solomon with cedar trees and fir trees, and gold according to all he had need of.) then Solomon gave Hiram twenty cities in the land of Galilee. And Hiram came out of Tyre, to see the towns which Solomon had given him, and they pleased him not, And he said: Are these the cities which thou hast given me, brother? And he called them the land of Chabul, unto this day. And Hiram sent to king Solomon a hundred and twenty talents of gold.

℟. The Lord That delivered me out of the mouth of the lion, and out of the paw of the bear * He will deliver me out of the hand of mine enemies.
℣. God hath sent forth His mercy and His truth, and delivered my soul from among the lion's whelps.
℟. He will deliver me out of the hand of mine enemies.
℣. Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, * and to the Holy Ghost.
℟. He will deliver me out of the hand of mine enemies.

Lesson IV
From the Book upon “The City of God” written by St. Augustine, Bishop of Hippo
Bk. xvii, ch. 8
Things which were then still to come were in a certain manner imagined in Solomon, who built the temple, who had that peace which his name implieth (for the name Solomon signifieth “the Peaceful One”) and who, at the beginning of his reign, was marvellously praiseworthy. By these things he foreshadowed in his own person, though he set not forth with his mouth, our Lord Christ. Thus are some things written of Solomon which are, as it were, things written concerning Christ, the Holy Scripture in this way, by giving the history of things past, prophesying all the while of things to come.

℟. Saul hath slain his thousands, and David his ten thousands. * Because the hand of the Lord was with him, he smote the Philistine, and took away the reproach from Israel.
℣. Is not this David? Did they not sing one to another of him in dances, saying: Saul hath slain his thousands, and David his ten thousands?
℟. Because the hand of the Lord was with him, he smote the Philistine, and took away the reproach from Israel.

Lesson V
Nor besides the books of the Divine history wherein his reign is recorded, the 71st Psalm is superscribed with his name. In this Psalm are many things which cannot suit him, but are most clearly applicable to the Lord Christ, thus showing that Solomon was, as it were, a shadowy figure cast before, of that which was afterwards revealed in very truth in the Person of Christ.

℟. Ye mountains of Gilboa, let there be no dew, neither let there be rain upon you * For there are the mighty of Israel fallen.
℣. All ye mountains that stand round about, the Lord look upon you but let Him pass by Gilboa
℟. For there are the mighty of Israel fallen.

Lesson VI
Without going into the rest, I may say that it is known what were the limits of Solomon's dominions, and yet in that Psalm we read: “He shall have dominion also from sea to sea, and from the river unto the ends of the earth.” This we see fulfilled in Christ. It was from the river, that is, from His Baptism by John in Jordan, that He began His assumption of dominion, for then it was when John bare testimony unto Him that His disciples began to acknowledge Him, calling Him, not Master only, but Lord.

℟. Thus saith the Lord: I took thee out of thy father's house, and appointed thee to be ruler over My people, over Israel. * And I was with thee whithersoever thou wentest, to establish thy kingdom for ever.
℣. And I have made thee a great name, like unto the name of the great men that are in the earth, and have caused thee to rest from all thine enemies.
℟. And I was with thee whithersoever thou wentest, to establish thy kingdom for ever.
℣. Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, * and to the Holy Ghost.
℟. And I was with thee whithersoever thou wentest, to establish thy kingdom for ever.

Lesson VII
From the Holy Gospel according to Luke
Luke 16:1-9
At that time, Jesus spake this parable unto His disciples: There was a certain rich man, which had a steward and the same was accused unto him that he had wasted his goods. And so on.

Homily by St. Jerome, Priest at Bethlehem
Letter 151 to Algasia
The lord commended the unjust steward, because he had done wisely though wickedly. The lord, although himself defrauded by it, could not but praise the shrewdness of his dishonest servant, because he had cheated him with profit to himself. How much more will our Master Christ, Who is above any defrauding by us, and is Himself the Great Forgiver, praise us if we win a blessing from Him by dealing indulgently with those who are to believe in Him?

℟. My sins are many, yea, they are more in number than the sands of the sea; I am not worthy to look up toward heaven because of the multitude of my iniquities; for I have provoked thee to anger; * And done evil in thy sight.
℣. For I acknowledge my transgression, and my sin is ever before me, for against thee only have I sinned.
℟. And done evil in thy sight.

Lesson VIII
After this parable the Lord saith: “Make to yourselves friends of the mammon of unrighteousness.” This word “mammon” is a Syriac, not an Hebrew, word, signifying ill-gotten gains. If then even ill-gotten gains can be so used by such as have them as to profit them, how much more can they who, like the Apostles, are “stewards of the mysteries of God,” those true and blameless riches, how much more can they profit themselves, (1 Cor. iv. 1,) even everlastingly, by their right use of them?

℟. One Seraph cried unto another: * Holy, Holy, Holy is the Lord God of hosts; the whole earth is full of His glory.
℣. There are Three That bear record in heaven: the Father, the Word, and the Holy Ghost, and these Three are One.
℟. Holy, Holy, Holy is the Lord God of hosts.
℣. Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, * and to the Holy Ghost.
℟. The whole earth is full of His glory.

Lesson IX
Therefore it is immediately written: “He that is faithful in that which is least, that is to say, in bodily things, is faithful also in much that is to say, in spiritual things.” “And he that is unjust in the least”, that is to say, by not giving to his needy brother succour of those things which are needful for the body, and which God hath made for all men, such an one is unjust also in much that is to say, he will deal out spiritual things unfairly, this to one and that to another, and not according to their true spiritual needs. “If therefore,” saith the Lord, “ye have not been faithful in the “use of earthly riches which pass away, “who will commit to your trust the true and abiding riches,” that is, the spiritual riches of the word of God?

[Te Deum follows]
