Friday of the Sixth Week after Pentecost
Feria
[Tempora/Pent06-5]

Lesson I
Lesson from the second book of Samuel
2 Sam 16:5-8
And king David came as far as Bahurim: and behold there came out from thence a man of the kindred of the house of Saul named Semei, the son of Gera, and coming out he cursed as he went on, And he threw stones at David, and at all the servants of king David: and all the people, and all the warriors walked on the right, and on the left side of the king. And thus said Semei when he cursed the king: Come out, come out, thou man of blood, and thou man of Belial. The Lord hath repaid thee for all the blood of the house of Saul: because thou hast usurped the kingdom in his stead, and the Lord hath given the kingdom into the hand of Absalom thy son: and behold thy evils press upon thee, because thou art a man of blood.

℟. Saul hath slain his thousands, and David his ten thousands. * Because the hand of the Lord was with him, he smote the Philistine, and took away the reproach from Israel.
℣. Is not this David? Did they not sing one to another of him in dances, saying: Saul hath slain his thousands, and David his ten thousands?
℟. Because the hand of the Lord was with him, he smote the Philistine, and took away the reproach from Israel.

Lesson II
2 Sam 16:9-10
And Abisai the son of Sarvia said to the king: Why should this dead dog curse my lord the king? I will go, and cut off his head. And the king said: What have I to do with you, ye sons of Sarvia? Let him alone and let him curse: for the Lord hath bid him curse David: and who is he that shall dare say, why hath he done so?

℟. Ye mountains of Gilboa, let there be no dew, neither let there be rain upon you * For there are the mighty of Israel fallen.
℣. All ye mountains that stand round about, the Lord look upon you but let Him pass by Gilboa
℟. For there are the mighty of Israel fallen.

Lesson III
2 Sam 16:11-12
And the king said to Abisai, and to all his servants: Behold my son, who came forth from my bowels, seeketh my life: how much more now a son of Jemini? let him alone that he may curse as the Lord hath bidden him. Perhaps the Lord may look upon my affliction, and the Lord may render me good for the cursing of this day.

℟. Thus saith the Lord: I took thee out of thy father's house, and appointed thee to be ruler over My people, over Israel. * And I was with thee whithersoever thou wentest, to establish thy kingdom for ever.
℣. And I have made thee a great name, like unto the name of the great men that are in the earth, and have caused thee to rest from all thine enemies.
℟. And I was with thee whithersoever thou wentest, to establish thy kingdom for ever.
℣. Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, * and to the Holy Ghost.
℟. And I was with thee whithersoever thou wentest, to establish thy kingdom for ever.
