Thursday of the Second Week of Lent
Feria major
[Tempora/Quad2-4]

Lesson I
Continuation of the Holy Gospel according to Luke
Luke 16:19-31
In that time, Jesus said to the pharisees: There was a certain rich man, who was clothed in purple and fine linen; and feasted sumptuously every day. And so on.

Homily by Pope St. Gregory (the Great.)
40th on the Gospels
Whom, dearly beloved brethren, whom are we to understand as signified by that rich man which was clothed in purple and fine linen, and fared sumptuously every day, whom, I ask, are we to understand, but the Jewish people, who had all the outward life of religious ordinances, and who turned the treasure of the law they had received to show and not to use? What but the herd of the Gentiles is figured in Lazarus, full of sores? Whosoever turneth himself to God and is not ashamed to confess his sin, hath his sores on the skin, for in a sore on the skin breaketh out the corruption, which is drawn from within.

℟. Take thy weapons, thy quiver and thy bow, and bring me some of thy venison, that I may eat, * and my soul may bless thee.
℣. And when thou hast taken somewhat, make me thereof savoury meat, that I may eat.
℟. And my soul may bless thee.

Lesson II
What is, then, the confession of our sins but the breaking out of our sores? The corrupt matter of sin is healthily opened in confession, instead of remaining in the mind to rot it. Open sores on the skin bring the poisonous matter to the surface, and when we confess our sins, what do we but open up the evil that there is lurking in us? But Lazarus desired to be fed with the crumbs which fell from the rich man's table, and no man gave unto him; even so did that proud people scorn to admit a Gentile to the knowledge of their law.

℟. See the smell of my son is as the smell of a field which the Lord hath blessed. May my God multiply thee as the sand of the sea. * And give thee a blessing of the dew of heaven.
℣. And God Almighty bless thee, and multiply thee.
℟. And give thee a blessing of the dew of heaven.

Lesson III
The teaching of the law moved them to pride, and not to love, as though they swelled with selfimportance at the thought of their riches, and the words which some Gentiles caught of their knowledge were as crumbs falling from their sumptuous table. On the other hand, the dogs came and licked the sores of the beggar that was laid at their gate. Sometimes in Holy Writ, under the figure of dogs, preachers are understood. A dog's tongue healeth the sore which it licketh, and so do holy teachers, when we confess our sins, and they speak to us, mollify by their tongues the sores of our souls.

℟. God give thee of the dew of heaven and the fatness of the earth. Let people and nations serve thee. * Be lord over thy brethren.
℣. And let thy mother's sons bow down to thee.
℟. Be lord over thy brethren.
℣. Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, * and to the Holy Ghost.
℟. Be lord over thy brethren.
