Tuesday after Quinquagesima Sunday
Feria
[Tempora/Quadp3-2]

Lesson I
Lesson from the book of Genesis
Gen 14:8-12
And the king of Sodom, and the king of Gomorrha, and the king of Adama, and the king of Seboim, and the king of Bala, which is Segor, went out: and they set themselves against them in battle array in the woodland vale: To wit, against Chodorlahomor king of the Elamites, and Thadal king of nations, and Amraphel king of Sennaar, and Arioch king of Pontus: four kings against five. Now the woodland vale had many pits of slime. And the king of Sodom, and the king of Gomorrha turned their backs and were overthrown there: and they that remained fled to the mountain. And they took all the substance of the Sodomites, and Gomorrhites, and all their victuals, and went their way: And Lot also, the son of Abram's brother, who dwelt in Sodom, and his substance.

℟. The Angel of the Lord called unto Abraham and said: * Lay not thine hand upon the lad; for now I know that thou fearest God.
℣. And Abraham stretched forth his hand to slay his son; and, behold, the Angel of the Lord called unto him out of heaven, and said:
℟. Lay not thy hand upon the lad; for now I know that thou fearest God.

Lesson II
Gen 14:13-16
And behold one that had escaped told Abram the Hebrew, who dwelt in the vale of Mambre the Amorrhite, the brother of Escol, and the brother of Aner: for these had made league with Abram. Which when Abram had heard, to wit, that his brother Lot was taken, he numbered of the servants born in his house, three hundred and eighteen well appointed: and pursued them to Dan. And dividing his company, he rushed upon them in the night: and defeated them, and pursued them as far as Hoba, which is on the left hand of Damascus. And he brought back all the substance, and Lot his brother, with his substance, the women also the people.

℟. The Angel of the Lord called unto Abraham out of heaven the second time, * And said: I will bless thee, and I will multiply thy seed as the stars of the heaven.
℣. Thy seed shall possess the gate of his enemies, and in thy seed shall all the nations of the earth be blessed.
℟. And I will multiply thy seed as the stars of the heaven.

Lesson III
Gen 14:17-20
And the king of Sodom went out to meet him, after he returned from the slaughter of Chodorlahomor, and of the kings that were with him in the vale of Save, which is the king's vale. But Melchisedech the king of Salem, bringing forth bread and wine, for he was the priest of the most high God, Blessed him, and said: Blessed be Abram by the most high God, who created heaven and earth. And blessed be the most high God, by whose protection the enemies are in thy hands. And he gave him the tithes of all.

℟. O God of my master Abraham, prosper my way which I go; * That I may return again in safety unto the house of my master.
℣. O Lord, I pray thee, be merciful unto thy servant.
℟. That I may return again in safety unto the house of my master.
℣. Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, * and to the Holy Ghost.
℟. That I may return again in safety unto the house of my master.
