Thursday after Sexagesima Sunday
Feria
[Tempora/Quadp2-4]

Lesson I
Lesson from the book of Genesis
Gen 9:12-15
And God said: This is the sign of the covenant which I will give between me and you, and to every living soul that is with you, for perpetual generations. I will set my bow in the clouds, and it shall be the sign of a covenant between me, and between the earth. And when I shall cover the sky with clouds, my bow shall appear in the clouds: And I will remember my covenant with you, and with every living soul that beareth flesh: and there shall no more be waters of a flood to destroy all flesh.

℟. The Lord said unto Noah: The end of all flesh is come before Me; for the earth is filled with violence through them. * And I will destroy them with the earth.
℣. Make thee an ark of planed timber, rooms shalt thou make in it.
℟. And I will destroy them with the earth.

Lesson II
Gen 9:20-23
And Noe, a husbandman, began to till the ground, and planted a vineyard. And drinking of the wine was made drunk, and was uncovered in his tent. Which when Cham the father of Chaanan had seen, to wit, that his father's nakedness was uncovered, he told it to his two brethren without. But Sem and Japheth put a cloak upon their shoulders, and going backward, covered the nakedness of their father: and their faces were turned away, and they saw not their father's nakedness.

℟. Noah was a just man and perfect; he walked with God. * According to all that God commanded him, so did he.
℣. He made him an ark, that a seed of every sort might be saved alive.
℟. According to all that God commanded him, so did he.

Lesson III
Gen 9:24-29
And Noe awaking from the wine, when he had learned what his younger son had done to him, He said: Cursed be Chaanan, a servant of servants, shall he be unto his brethren. And he said: Blessed be the Lord God of Sem, be Chanaan his servant. May God enlarge Japheth, and may he dwell in the tents of Sem, and Chanaan be his servant. And Noe lived after the flood three hundred and fifty years: And all his days were in the whole nine hundred and fifty years: and he died.

℟. Forty days and forty nights were the heavens opened; and there went into the ark two and two of all flesh wherein is the breath of life. * And the Lord shut them in.
℣. In the self-same day entered Noah into the ark, and his sons, and his wife, and the wives of his sons.
℟. And the Lord shut them in.
℣. Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, * and to the Holy Ghost.
℟. And the Lord shut them in.
