Saturday after Septuagesima Sunday
Feria
[Tempora/Quadp1-6]

Lesson I
Lesson from the book of Genesis
Gen 5:15-21
And Malaleel lived sixty-five years, and begot Jared. And Malaleel lived after he begot Jared, eight hundred and thirty years, and begot sons and daughters. And all the days of Malaleel were eight hundred and ninety-five years, and he died. And Jared lived a hundred and sixty-two years, and begot Henoch. And Jared lived after he begot Henoch, eight hundred years, and begot sons and daughters. And all the days of Jared were nine hundred and sixty-two years, and he died. And Henoch lived sixty-five years, and begot Mathusala.

℟. And the Lord God had planted a garden aforetime in Eden, * And there He put the man whom He had formed.
℣. And out of the ground made the Lord God to grow every tree that is pleasant to the sight, and good for food, the tree of life also in the midst of the garden.
℟. And there He put the man whom He had formed.

Lesson II
Gen 5:22-27
And Henoch walked with God: and lived after he begot Mathusala, three hundred years, and begot sons and daughters. And all the days of Henoch were three hundred and sixty-five years. And he walked with God, and was seen no more: because God took him. And Mathusala lived a hundred and eighty-seven years, and begot Lamech. And Mathusala lived after he begot Lamech, seven hundred and eighty-two years, and begot sons and daughters. And all the days of Mathusala were nine hundred and sixty-nine years, and he died.

℟. Behold, Adam is become as One of Us, to know good and evil. * See lest he take of the tree of life and live for ever.
℣. Unto Adam also did the Lord God make a coat of skins, and clothed him, and said:
℟. See lest he take of the tree of life and live for ever.

Lesson III
Gen 5:28-31
And Lamech lived a hundred and eighty-two years, and begot a son. And he called his name Noe, saying: This same shall comfort us from the works and labours of our hands on the earth which the Lord hath cursed. And Lamech lived after he begot Noe, five hundred and ninety-five years, and he begot sons and daughters. And all the days of Lamech came to seven hundred and seventy-seven years, and he died.

℟. The Lord said unto Cain: Where is Abel thy brother? Lord, I know not am I my brother's keeper? And He said unto him What hast thou done? * Behold, the voice of thy brother Abel's blood crieth unto Me from the ground.
℣. Cursed shalt thou be upon the earth, which hath opened her mouth to receive thy brother's blood from thy hand.
℟. Behold, the voice of thy brother Abel's blood crieth unto Me from the ground.
℣. Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, * and to the Holy Ghost.
℟. Behold, the voice of thy brother Abel's blood crieth unto Me from the ground.
