Wednesday in Holy Week
Feria privilegiata
[Tempora/Quad6-3]

Lesson I
Lesson from the book of Jeremias
Jer 17:13-18
O Lord, the hope of Israel: all that forsake thee shall be confounded: they that depart from thee, shall be written in the earth: because they have forsaken the Lord, the vein of living waters. Heal me, O Lord, and I shall be healed: save me, and I shall be saved, for thou art my praise. Behold they say to me: Where is the word of the Lord? let it come. And I am not troubled, following thee for my pastor, and I have not desired the day of man, thou knowest. That which went out of my lips, hath been right in thy sight. Be not thou a terror unto me, thou art my hope in the day of affliction. Let them be confounded that persecute me, and let not me be confounded: let them be afraid, and let not me be afraid: bring upon them the day of affliction, and with a double destruction, destroy them.

℟. They have spoken against me with a lying tongue; they compassed me about also with words of hatred: in return for my love they were my adversaries: * But I gave myself unto prayer; and Thou hast heard me, Lord my God!
℣. And they have rewarded me evil for good, and hatred for my love.
℟. But I gave myself unto prayer; and Thou hast heard me, Lord my God!

Lesson II
Jer 18:13-18
Therefore thus saith the Lord: Ask among the nations: Who hath heard such horrible things, as the virgin of Israel hath done to excess? Shall the snow of Libanus fail from the rock of the field? or can the cold waters that gush out and run down, be taken away? Because my people have forgotten me, sacrificing in vain, and stumbling in their ways, in ancient paths, to walk by them in a way not trodden: That their land might be given up to desolation, and to a perpetual hissing: every one that shall pass by it, shall be astonished, and wag his head. As a burning will I scatter them before the enemy: I will shew them the back, and not the face, in the day of their destruction. And they said: Come, and let us invent devices against Jeremias: for the law shall not perish from the priest, nor counsel from the wise, nor the word from the prophet: come, and let us strike him with the tongue, and let us give no heed to all his words.

℟. The ungodly said, reasoning with themselves, but not aright; Let us lie in wait for the righteous, because he is clean contrary to our doings he professeth to have the knowledge of God, he calleth himself the Son of God, and boasteth that he hath God to his Father. * Let us see if his words be true; and, if he be indeed the Son of God, let Him deliver him from our hand; let us condemn him with a shameful death.
℣. We are esteemed of him as counterfeits, and he abstaineth from our ways as from filthiness, and commendeth the end of the just.
℟. Let us see if his words be true; and, if he be indeed the Son of God, let Him deliver him from our hand; let us condemn him with a shameful death.

Lesson III
Jer 18:19-23
Give heed to me, O Lord, and hear the voice of my adversaries. Shall evil be rendered for good, because they have digged a pit for my soul? Remember that I have stood in thy sight, to speak good for them, and turn away thy indignation from them. Therefore deliver up their children to famine, and bring them into the hands of the sword: let their wives be bereaved of children and widows: and let their husbands be slain by death: let their young men be stabbed with the sword in battle. Let a cry be heard out of their houses: for thou shalt bring the robber upon them suddenly: because they have digged a pit to take me, and have hid snares for my feet. But thou, O Lord, knowest all their counsel against me unto death: forgive not their iniquity, and let not their sin be blotted out from thy sight: let them be overthrown before thy eyes, in the time of thy wrath do thou destroy them.

℟. Liars are come round about me, they have fallen upon me with scourges without a cause. * But do Thou, O Lord my Redeemer, avenge me!
℣. For trouble is near, and there is none to help.
℟. But do Thou, O Lord my Redeemer, avenge me!
℣. Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, * and to the Holy Ghost.
℟. Liars are come round about me, they have fallen upon me with scourges without a cause. * But do Thou, O Lord my Redeemer, avenge me!
