Monday after Septuagesima Sunday
Feria
[Tempora/Quadp1-1]

Lesson I
Lesson from the book of Genesis
Gen 1:27-31
And God created man to his own image: to the image of God he created him: male and female he created them. And God blessed them, saying: Increase and multiply, and fill the earth, and subdue it, and rule over the fishes of the sea, and the fowls of the air, and all living creatures that move upon the earth. And God said: Behold I have given you every herb bearing seed upon the earth, and all trees that have in themselves seed of their own kind, to be your meat: And to all the beasts of the earth, and to every fowl of the air, and to all that move upon the earth, and wherein there is life, that they may have to feed upon. And it was so done. And God saw all the things that he had made, and they were very good. And the evening and morning were the sixth day.

℟. When the Lord walked in the garden in the cool of the day, He called, and said Adam, where art thou? Lord, I heard thy voice. * And I hid myself.
℣. I heard thy voice in the garden, and I was afraid, because I was naked.
℟. And I hid myself.

Lesson II
Gen 2:1-6
So the heavens and the earth were finished, and all the furniture of them. And on the seventh day God ended his work which he had made: and he rested on the seventh day from all his work which he had done. And he blessed the seventh day, and sanctified it: because in it he had rested from all his work which God created and made. These are the generations of the heaven and the earth, when they were created, in the day that the Lord God made the heaven and the earth: And every plant of the field before it spring up in the earth, and every herb of the ground before it grew: for the Lord God had not rained upon the earth; and there was not a man to till the earth. But a spring rose out the earth, watering all the surface of the earth.

℟. The Lord said unto Adam: In the sweat of thy face shalt thou eat bread; when thou tillest the ground, it shall not henceforth yield unto thee her fruits. * Thorns also and thistles shall it bring forth to thee.
℣. Because thou hast hearkened unto the voice of thy wife, and hast eaten of the tree which I commanded thee, saying: Thou shalt not eat of it, cursed is the ground whereon thou shalt labour.
℟. Thorns also and thistles shall it bring forth to thee.

Lesson III
Gen 2:7-10
And the Lord God formed man of the slime of the earth: and breathed into his face the breath of life, and man became a living soul. And the Lord God had planted a paradise of pleasure from the beginning: wherein he placed man whom he had formed. And the Lord God brought forth of the ground all manner of trees, fair to behold, and pleasant to eat of: the tree of life also in the midst of paradise: and the tree of knowledge of good and evil. And a river went out the place of pleasure to water paradise, which from thence is divided into four heads.

℟. The Lord formed man of the dust of the ground * And breathed into his face the breath of life, and man became a living soul.
℣. In the beginning God created the heavens and the earth, wherein He made man also.
℟. And breathed into his face the breath of life, and man became a living soul.
℣. Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, * and to the Holy Ghost.
℟. And breathed into his face the breath of life, and man became a living soul.
