Monday after Quinquagesima Sunday
Feria
[Tempora/Quadp3-1]

Lesson I
Lesson from the book of Genesis
Gen 13:1-6
And Abram went up out of Egypt, he and his wife, and all that he had, and Lot with him, into the south. And he was very rich in possession of gold and silver. And he returned by the way that he came, from the south to Bethel, to the place where before he had pitched his tent between Bethel and Hai: In the place of the altar which he had made before; and there he called upon the name of the Lord. But Lot also, who was with Abram, had flocks of sheep, and herds of beasts, and tents. Neither was the land able to bear them, that they might dwell together: for their substance was great, and they could not dwell together.

℟. Abram removed his tent, and came, and dwelt by the vale of Mamre * And built there an altar unto the Lord.
℣. And the Lord said unto him: Lift up thine eyes, and look; all the land which thou seest, to thee will I give it, and to thy seed for ever.
℟. And built there an altar unto the Lord.

Lesson II
Gen 13:7-11
Whereupon also there arose a strife between the herdsmen of Abram and of Lot. And at that time the Chanaanite and the Pherezite dwelled in that country. Abram therefore said to Lot: Let there be no quarrel, I beseech thee, between me and thee, and between my herdsmen and thy herdsmen: for we are brethren. Behold the whole land is before thee: depart from me I pray thee: if thou wilt go to the left hand, I will take the right: if thou choose the right hand, I will pass to the left. And Lot, lifting up his eyes, saw all the country about the Jordan, which was watered throughout, before the Lord destroyed Sodom and Gomorrha, as the paradise of the Lord, and like Egypt as one comes to Segor. And Lot chose to himself the country about the Jordan, and he departed from the east.

℟. Abraham believed God, and it was counted unto him for righteousness. * And therefore he became the friend of God.
℣. For he was righteous in the sight of the Lord, and walked in His ways.
℟. And therefore he became the friend of God.

Lesson III
Gen 13:11-16
And they were separated one brother from the other. Abram dwelt in the land of Chanaan; and Lot abode in the towns that were about the Jordan, and dwelt in Sodom. And the men of Sodom were very wicked, and sinners before the face of the Lord, beyond measure. And the Lord said to Abram, after Lot was separated from him: Lift up thy eyes, and look from the place wherein thou now art, to the north and to the south, to the east and to the west. All the land which thou seest, I will give to thee, and to thy seed for ever. And I will make thy seed as the dust of the earth.

℟. The Lord did tempt Abraham, and said unto him: * Take thy son Isaac whom thou lovest, and offer him there for a burnt-offering upon one of the mountains which I will tell thee of.
℣. And when the Lord called him, he answered: Behold, here I am. And the Lord said unto him:
℟. Take thy son Isaac whom thou lovest, and offer him there for a burnt-offering upon one of the mountains which I will tell thee of.
℣. Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, * and to the Holy Ghost.
℟. Take thy son Isaac whom thou lovest, and offer him there for a burnt-offering upon one of the mountains which I will tell thee of.
