Tuesday after Septuagesima Sunday
Feria
[Tempora/Quadp1-2]

Lesson I
Lesson from the book of Genesis
Gen 2:15-18
And the Lord God took man, and put him into the paradise for pleasure, to dress it, and keep it. And he commanded him, saying: Of every tree of paradise thou shalt eat: But of the tree of knowledge of good and evil, thou shalt not eat. for in what day soever thou shalt eat of it, thou shalt die the death. And the Lord God said: It is not good for man to be alone: let us make him a help like unto himself.

℟. God took the man and put him into the garden of Eden * To dress it and to keep it.
℣. And the Lord God had planted a garden aforetime in Eden, and there He put the man whom He had formed.
℟. To dress it and to keep it.

Lesson II
Gen 2:19-20
And the Lord God having formed out of the ground all the beasts of the earth, and all the fowls of the air, brought them to Adam to see what he would call them: for whatsoever Adam called any living creature the same is its name. And Adam called all the beasts by their names, and all the fowls of the air, and all the cattle of the field: but for Adam there was not found a helper like himself.

℟. The Lord God said: It is not good that the man should be alone. * Let Us make an help meet for him.
℣. But for Adam there was not found an help meet for him; and God said:
℟. Let Us make an help meet for him.

Lesson III
Gen 2:21-24
Then the Lord God cast a deep sleep upon Adam: and when he was fast asleep, he took one of his ribs, and filled up flesh for it. And the Lord God built the rib which he took from Adam into a woman: and brought her to Adam. And Adam said: This now is bone of my bones, and flesh of my flesh; she shall be called woman, because she was taken out of man. Wherefore a man shall leave father and mother, and shall cleave to his wife: and they shall be two in one flesh.

℟. The Lord caused a deep sleep to fall upon Adam, and He took one of his ribs. † And the rib which the Lord had taken from Adam made He a woman, and brought her unto Adam, to see what he would call her. * And he called her name Woman, because she was taken out of Man.
℣. And while he slept He took one of his ribs, and closed up the flesh instead thereof.
℟. And the rib which the Lord had taken from Adam made He a woman, and brought her unto Adam, to see what he would call her.
℣. Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, * and to the Holy Ghost.
℟. And he called her name Woman, because she was taken out of Man.
