Friday of the Second Week of Lent
Feria major
[Tempora/Quad2-5]

Lesson I
Continuation of the Holy Gospel according to Matthew
Matt 21:33-46
In that time, Jesus said to the multitude of Jews and the chief priests: Hear ye another parable. There was a man an householder, who planted a vineyard, and made a hedge round about it. And so on.

Homily by St. Ambrose, Bishop (of Milan.)
Bk. ix on Luke xx
Many derive diverse spiritual meanings from the term vineyard, but Isaias giveth us to know that the vineyard of the Lord of Sabaoth is the house of Israel. (v. 7.) Who but God planted that vineyard? He it was that let it out to husbandmen, and went into a far country; not that the Lord, Who is everywhere present, moveth from place to place; but because He is nigh unto them that seek Him, and from such as regard Him not He standeth afar off. For a long time He tarried away, lest He might seem to ask too early for the fruits of His vineyard. For where kindness is greatest, there ingratitude is worst.

℟. As Jacob went out from his own land, he saw the glory of God, and said: How dreadful is this place. * This is none other but the house of God and this is the gate of heaven.
℣. Surely God is in this place, and I knew it not.
℟. This is none other but the house of God and this is the gate of heaven.

Lesson II
Therefore it is well written in Matthew, for our instruction, that He hedged it round about, that is, He girded it with the fortifications of His own Divine protection, that it might not easily lie open to the ravages of spiritual wild beasts. And digged a wine-press in it. What sense are we to put upon the wine-press, unless it be that the Psalms are here described under that title, because in them the mysteries of the Lord's Passion flow over like new wine, working under the power of the Holy Ghost? Whence also, they upon whom the Holy Ghost was outpoured were deemed to be drunken (Acts ii. 13.). God therefore digged a wine-press, whereinto the reasonable grapes of inward fruitfulness poured their spiritual richness.

℟. If the Lord my God will be with me, in this way that I go, and will keep me, and will give me bread to eat, and raiment to put on, and will bring me again safely. * The Lord shall be my refuge, and this stone shall be a sign.
℣. So Jacob rose up early in the morning, and took the stone that he had put for his pillow, and set it up for a pillar, and poured oil upon the top of it, and said:
℟. The Lord shall be my refuge, and this shall be a sign.

Lesson III
And built a tower that is, He raised up the goodly structure of the Law. And so this His vineyard, thus fortified, furnished, and garnished, He gave over to the Jews. And when the time of the fruit drew near, He sent His servants to the husbandmen. Well doth He call it the time of the fruit, not the time of the in-gathering. For the Jews yielded Him no fruit; the Lord had no ingathering from that vineyard of which He said: When I looked that it should bring forth grapes, it brought forth wild grapes. (Isa. v. 4.) Not that wine that maketh glad the heart of man, not with the new wine of the spirit, reeked that wine-press, but with the blood of the Prophets, brutally shed.

℟. The Lord shall be my God, and this stone, which I have set for a pillar, shall be called God's house, and of all that Thou shalt give me; * I will offer tithes and peace-offerings to thee.
℣. If I come again to my father's house in peace.
℟. I will offer tithes and peace-offerings unto thee.
℣. Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, * and to the Holy Ghost.
℟. I will offer tithes and peace-offerings unto thee.
