Friday after Septuagesima Sunday
Feria
[Tempora/Quadp1-5]

Lesson I
Lesson from the book of Genesis
Gen 4:17-22
And Cain knew his wife, and she conceived, and brought forth Henoch: and he built a city, and called the name thereof by the name of his son Henoch. And Henoch begot Irad, and Irad begot Maviael, and Maviael begot Mathusael, and Mathusael begot Lamech: Who took two wives: the name of the one was Ada, and the name of the other was Sella. And Ada brought forth Jabel: who was the father of such as dwell in tents, and of herdsmen. And his brother's name was Jubal; he was the father of them that play upon the harp and the organs. Sella also brought forth Tubalcain, who was a hammerer and artificer in every work of brass and iron. And the sister of Tubalcain was Noema.

℟. God took the man and put him into the garden of Eden * To dress it and to keep it.
℣. And the Lord God had planted a garden aforetime in Eden, and there He put the man whom He had formed.
℟. To dress it and to keep it.

Lesson II
Gen 4:23-26
And Lamech said to his wives Ada and Sella: Hear my voice, ye wives of Lamech, hearken to my speech: for I have slain a man to the wounding of myself, and a stripling to my own bruising. Sevenfold vengeance shall be taken for Cain: but for Lamech seventy times sevenfold. Adam also knew his wife again: and she brought forth a son, and called his name Seth, saying: God hath given me another seed, for Abel whom Cain slew. But to Seth also was born a son, whom he called Enos; this man began to call upon the name of the Lord.

℟. The Lord God said: It is not good that the man should be alone. * Let Us make an help meet for him.
℣. But for Adam there was not found an help meet for him; and God said:
℟. Let Us make an help meet for him.

Lesson III
Gen 5:1-5
This is the book of the generation of Adam. In the day that God created man, he made him to the likeness of God. He created them male and female; and blessed them: and called their name Adam, in the day when they were created. And Adam lived a hundred and thirty years, and begot a son to his own image and likeness, and called his name Seth. And the days of Adam, after he begot Seth, were eight hundred years: and he begot sons and daughters. And all the time that Adam lived came to nine hundred and thirty years, and he died.

℟. The Lord caused a deep sleep to fall upon Adam, and He took one of his ribs. † And the rib which the Lord had taken from Adam made He a woman, and brought her unto Adam, to see what he would call her. * And he called her name Woman, because she was taken out of Man.
℣. And while he slept He took one of his ribs, and closed up the flesh instead thereof.
℟. And the rib which the Lord had taken from Adam made He a woman, and brought her unto Adam, to see what he would call her.
℣. Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, * and to the Holy Ghost.
℟. And he called her name Woman, because she was taken out of Man.
