Monday after Sexagesima Sunday
Feria
[Tempora/Quadp2-1]

Lesson I
Lesson from the book of Genesis
Gen 7:1-4
And the Lord said to him: Go in thou and all thy house into the ark: for thee I have seen just before me in this generation. Of all clean beasts take seven and seven, the male and female. But of the beasts that are unclean two and two, the male and female. Of the fowls also of the air seven and seven, the male and the female: that seed may be saved upon the face of the whole earth. For yet a while, and after seven days, I will rain upon the earth forty days and forty nights; and I will destroy every substance that I have made, from the face of the earth.

℟. In the self-same day entered Noah into the ark, and his sons, * And his wife and the wives of his sons.
℣. Every living substance was destroyed from the earth, and Noah only remained alive, and they that were with him in the ark.
℟. And his wife, and the wives of his sons.

Lesson II
Gen 7:5; 7:10-12
And Noe did all things which the Lord had commanded him. And after seven days were passed, the waters of the flood overflowed the earth. In the six hundreth year of the life of Noe in the second month, in the seventeenth day of the month, all the fountains of the great deep were broken up, and the flood gates of heaven were open: And the rain fell upon the earth forty days and forty nights.

℟. The Lord remembered Noah, and made a wind to pass over the earth, and the waters assuaged, * And the rain from heaven was restrained.
℣. And the waters returned from off the earth continually, and after the end of the hundred and fifty days the waters were abated.
℟. And the rain from heaven was restrained.

Lesson III
Gen 7:13-14; 7:17
In the selfsame day Noe, and Sem, and Cham, and Japheth his sons: his wife, and the three wives of his sons with them, went into the ark: They and every beast according to its kind, and all the cattle in their kind, and every thing that moveth upon the earth according to its kind, and every fowl according to its kind. And the flood was forty days upon the earth, and the waters increased, and lifted up the ark on high from earth.

℟. Forty days and forty nights were the heavens opened; and there went into the ark two and two of all flesh wherein is the breath of life. * And the Lord shut them in.
℣. In the self-same day entered Noah into the ark, and his sons, and his wife, and the wives of his sons.
℟. And the Lord shut them in.
℣. Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, * and to the Holy Ghost.
℟. And the Lord shut them in.
