Wednesday after Sexagesima Sunday
Feria
[Tempora/Quadp2-3]

Lesson I
Lesson from the book of Genesis
Gen 8:15-19
And God spoke to Noe, saying: Go out of the ark, thou and thy wife, thy sons, and the wives of thy sons with thee. All livings things that are with thee of all flesh, as well in fowls as in beasts, and all creeping things that creep upon the earth, bring out with thee, and go ye upon the earth: increase and multiply upon it. So Noe went out, he and his sons: his wife, and the wives of his sons with him. And all living things, and cattle, and creeping things that creep upon the earth, according to their kinds, went out of the ark.

℟. God blessed Noah and his sons, and said unto them: * Be fruitful, and multiply, and replenish the earth.
℣. Behold, I establish My covenant with you, and with your seed after you.
℟. Be fruitful, and multiply, and replenish the earth.

Lesson II
Gen 8:20-22
And Noe built an altar unto the Lord: and taking of all cattle and fowls that were clean, offered holocausts upon the altar. And the Lord smelled a sweet savour, and said: I will no more curse the earth for the sake of man: for the imagination and thought of man's heart are prone to evil from his youth: therefore I will no more destroy every living soul as I have done. All the days of the earth, seedtime and harvest, cold and heat, summer and winter, night and day, shall not cease.

℟. Behold, I establish My covenant with you, and with your seed after you. * Neither shall there any more be a flood to destroy the earth.
℣. I do set My bow in the clouds, and it shall be for a token of a covenant between Me and the earth.
℟. Neither shall there any more be a flood to destroy the earth.

Lesson III
Gen 9:1-6
And God blessed Noe and his sons. And he said to them: Increase and multiply, and fill the earth. And let the fear and dread of you be upon all the beasts of the earth, and upon all the fowls of the air, and all that move upon the earth: all the fishes of the sea are delivered into your hand. And every thing that moveth and liveth shall be meat for you: even as the green herbs have I delivered them all to you: Saving that flesh with blood you shall not eat. For I will require the blood of your lives at the hand of every beast, and at the hand of man, at the hand of every man, and of his brother, will I require the life of man. Whosoever shall shed man's blood, his blood shall be shed: for man was made to the image of God.

℟. In the self-same day entered Noah into the ark, and his sons, * And his wife and the wives of his sons.
℣. Every living substance was destroyed from the earth, and Noah only remained alive, and they that were with him in the ark.
℟. And his wife, and the wives of his sons.
℣. Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, * and to the Holy Ghost.
℟. And his wife, and the wives of his sons.
