Thursday after Septuagesima Sunday
Feria
[Tempora/Quadp1-4]

Lesson I
Lesson from the book of Genesis
Gen 4:1-7
And Adam knew Eve his wife: who conceived and brought forth Cain, saying: I have gotten a man through God. And again she brought forth his brother Abel. And Abel was a shepherd, and Cain a husbandman. And it came to pass after many days, that Cain offered, of the fruits of the earth, gifts to the Lord. Abel also offered of the firstlings of his flock, and of their fat: and the Lord had respect to Abel, and to his offerings. But to Cain and his offerings he had no respect: and Cain was exceedingly angry, and his countenance fell. And the Lord said to him: Why art thou angry? and why is thy countenance fallen? If thou do well, shalt thou not receive? but if ill, shall not sin forthwith be present at the door? but the lust thereof shall be under thee, and thou shalt have dominion over it.

℟. In the beginning God created the heavens and the earth, wherein He made man also * After His own image and likeness.
℣. So God formed man of the dust of the ground, and breathed into his face the breath of life.
℟. After His own image and likeness.

Lesson II
Gen 4:8-12
And Cain said to Abel his brother: Let us go forth abroad. And when they were in the field, Cain rose up against his brother Abel, and slew him. And the Lord said to Cain: Where is thy brother Abel? And he answered, I know not: am I my brother's keeper? And he said to him: What hast thou done? the voice of thy brother's blood crieth to me from the earth. Now, therefore, cursed shalt thou be upon the earth, which hath opened her mouth and received the blood of thy brother at thy hand, When thou shalt till it, it shall not yield to thee its fruit: a fugitive and vagabond shalt thou be upon the earth.

℟. In the beginning God created the heavens and the earth, and the Spirit of God moved upon the face of the waters. * And God saw everything that He had made, and it was very good.
℣. Thus the heavens and the earth were finished, and all the hosts of them.
℟. And God saw everything that He had made, and it was very good.

Lesson III
Gen 4:13-16
And Cain said to the Lord: My iniquity is greater than that I may deserve pardon. Behold thou dost cast me out this day from the face of the earth, and I shall be hidden from thy face, and I shall be a vagabond and a fugitive on the earth: everyone, therefore, that findeth me, shall kill me. And the Lord said to him: No, it shall not be so: but whosoever shall kill Cain, shall be punished sevenfold. And the Lord set a mark upon Cain, that whosoever found him should not kill him. And Cain went out from the face of the Lord, and dwelt as a fugitive on the earth, at the east side of Eden.

℟. The Lord formed man of the dust of the ground * And breathed into his face the breath of life, and man became a living soul.
℣. In the beginning God created the heavens and the earth, wherein He made man also.
℟. And breathed into his face the breath of life, and man became a living soul.
℣. Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, * and to the Holy Ghost.
℟. And breathed into his face the breath of life, and man became a living soul.
