Saturday after Sexagesima Sunday
Feria
[Tempora/Quadp2-6]

Lesson I
Lesson from the book of Genesis
Gen 11:10-15
These are the generations of Sem: Sem was a hundred years old when he begot Arphaxad, two years after the flood. And Sem lived after he begot Arphaxad, five hundred years, and begot sons and daughters. And Arphaxad lived thirty-five years, and begot Sale. And Arphaxad lived after he begot Sale, three hundred and three years; and begot sons and daughters. Sale also lived thirty years, and begot Heber. And Sale lived after he begot Heber, four hundred and three years; and begot sons and daughters.

℟. God blessed Noah and his sons, and said unto them: * Be fruitful, and multiply, and replenish the earth.
℣. Behold, I establish My covenant with you, and with your seed after you.
℟. Be fruitful, and multiply, and replenish the earth.

Lesson II
Gen 11:16-23
And Heber lived thirty-four years, and begot Phaleg. And Heber lived after he begot Phaleg, four hundred and thirty years: and begot sons and daughters. Phaleg also lived thirty years, and begot Reu. And Phaleg lived after he begot Reu, two hundred and nine years, and begot sons and daughters. And Reu lived thirty-two years, and begot Sarug. And Reu lived after he begot Sarug, two hundred and seven years, and begot sons and daughters. And Sarug lived thirty years, and begot Nachor. And Sarug lived after he begot Nachor, two hundred years: and begot sons and daughters.

℟. Behold, I establish My covenant with you, and with your seed after you. * Neither shall there any more be a flood to destroy the earth.
℣. I do set My bow in the clouds, and it shall be for a token of a covenant between Me and the earth.
℟. Neither shall there any more be a flood to destroy the earth.
℣. Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, * and to the Holy Ghost.
℟. Neither shall there any more be a flood to destroy the earth.

Lesson III
Gen 11:24-30
And Nachor lived nine and twenty years, and begot Thare. And Nachor lived after he begot Thare, a hundred and nineteen years: and begot sons and daughters. And Thare lived seventy years, and begot Abram, and Nachor, and Aran. And these are the generations of Thare: Thare begot Abram, Nachor, and Aran. And Aran begot Lot. And Aran died before Thare his father, in the land of his nativity in Ur of the Chaldees. And Abram and Nachor married wives: the name of Abram's wife was Sarai: and the name of Nachor's wife, Melcha, the daughter of Aran, father of Melcha, and father of Jescha. And Sarai was barren, and had no children.

℟. In the self-same day entered Noah into the ark, and his sons, * And his wife and the wives of his sons.
℣. Every living substance was destroyed from the earth, and Noah only remained alive, and they that were with him in the ark.
℟. And his wife, and the wives of his sons.
℣. Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, * and to the Holy Ghost.
℟. And his wife, and the wives of his sons.
