Thursday in Passion Week
Feria major
[Tempora/Quad5-4]

Lesson I
Continuation of the Holy Gospel according to Luke
Luke 7:36-50
In that time, one of the Pharisees desired him to eat with him. And he went into the house of the Pharisee, And so on.

Homily by Pope St. Gregory (the Great.)
33rd on the Gospels
When I think of the repentance of Mary Magdalene I feel nigher to weep than to say ought. Is there indeed any man, however stony his heart, who is not somewhat moved to follow the example of her repentance by the tears of that poor sinful woman? She weighed what she did, and would not that what she did should be niggardly. She came unbidden among the guests, and obtruded her tears upon the banquet. Ye may hence gather her sorrow, that she was content to weep at a feast.

℟. Deliver me, O my God, out of the hand of the wicked, and out of the hand of the unrighteous and cruel man. * For Thou art my hope.
℣. O my God, be not far from me O my God, make haste for my help.
℟. For Thou art my hope.

Lesson II
We believe that this woman, of whom Luke saith that she was a woman in the city, which was a sinner, and whom John nameth Mary, (xi. 2,) was the same as she of whom it is written in Mark (xvi. 9) that the Lord had cast out of her seven devils. And what signify seven devils but all manner of sin? For even as seven days do represent all time, so doth the number seven stand for all. Therefore is it said that Mary had seven devils, because she was full of all sin.

℟. They be increased that trouble me, and that say There is no help for him in his God. * Arise, O Lord! Save me, O my God!
℣. Lest mine enemy say I have prevailed against him.
℟. Arise, O Lord! Save me, O my God!

Lesson III
But see how she realized the depth of her own filthiness, and came to be washed to the Well of Mercy, before all them which were bidden to the feast. The bitterness of her inward shame made her esteem it a light thing to be despised outwardly. At what then do we marvel, my brethren? That she came, or that the Lord welcomed her? Or would it be truer for me to say that He drew her to Him and welcomed her when she came? for His mercy inwardly drew her, and, when she came, His gentleness openly welcomed her.

℟. How long shall mine enemy be exalted over me? * Consider, and hear me, O Lord my God!
℣. Those that trouble me will rejoice when I am moved but I have trusted in thy mercy.
℟. Consider and hear me, O Lord my God!
℣. Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, * and to the Holy Ghost.
℟. How long shall mine enemy be exalted over me? Consider and hear me, O Lord my God!
