Friday after Sexagesima Sunday
Feria
[Tempora/Quadp2-5]

Lesson I
Lesson from the book of Genesis
Gen 10:1-6
These are the generations of the sons of Noe: Sem, Cham, and Japheth: and unto them sons were born after the flood. The sons of Japheth: Gomer, and Magog, and Madai, and Javan, and Thubal, and Mosoch, and Thiras. And the sons of Gomer: Ascenez and Riphath and Thogorma. And the sons of Javan: Elisa and Tharsis, Cetthim, and Dodanim. By these were divided the islands of the Gentiles in their lands, every one according to his tongue and their families in their nations. And the sons of Cham: Chus, and Mesram, and Phuth, and Chanaan.

℟. Noah builded an Altar unto the Lord, and offered burnt offerings on the Altar; and the Lord smelled a sweet savour, and blessed Noah, and said: * Be fruitful, and multiply, and replenish the earth.
℣. Behold, I establish My covenant with you, and with your seed after you.
℟. Be fruitful, and multiply, and replenish the earth.

Lesson II
Gen 11:1-4
And the earth was of one tongue, and of the same speech. And when they removed from the east, they found a plain in the land of Sennaar, and dwelt in it. And each one said to his neighbour: Come, let us make brick, and bake them of stones, and slime instead of mortar. And they said: Come, let us make a city and a tower, the top whereof may reach to heaven: and let us make our name famous before we be scattered abroad into all lands.

℟. The Lord said unto Noah: I do set My bow in the clouds of heaven, * And I will remember My covenant which is between Me and you.
℣. And it shall come to pass, when I bring a cloud over the heaven, that My bow shall be seen in the cloud.
℟. And I will remember My covenant which is between Me and you.

Lesson III
Gen 11:5-8
And the Lord came down to see the city and the tower, which the children of Adam were building. And he said: Behold, it is one people, and all have one tongue: and they have begun to do this, neither will they leave off from their designs, till they accomplish them in deed. Come ye, therefore, let us go down, and there may not understand one another's speech. And so the Lord scattered them from that place into all lands, and they ceased to build the city.

℟. By Myself have I sworn, saith the Lord. I will not again bring the waters of the flood upon the earth, I will remember My covenant. * And the waters shall become no more a flood to destroy all flesh.
℣. I do set My bow in the clouds, and it shall be for a token of a covenant between Me and the earth.
℟. And the waters shall no more become a flood to destroy all flesh.
℣. Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, * and to the Holy Ghost.
℟. And the waters shall no more become a flood to destroy all flesh.
