Tuesday after Sexagesima Sunday
Feria
[Tempora/Quadp2-2]

Lesson I
Lesson from the book of Genesis
Gen 8:1-4
And God remembered Noe, and all the living creatures, and all the cattle which were with him in the ark, and brought a wind upon the earth, and the waters were abated. The fountains also of the deep, and the flood gates of heaven were shut up, and the rain from heaven was restrained. And the waters returned from off the earth going and coming: and they began to be abated after a hundred and fifty days. And the ark rested in the seventh month, the seven and twentieth day of the month, upon the mountains of Armenia.

℟. Noah builded an Altar unto the Lord, and offered burnt offerings on the Altar; and the Lord smelled a sweet savour, and blessed Noah, and said: * Be fruitful, and multiply, and replenish the earth.
℣. Behold, I establish My covenant with you, and with your seed after you.
℟. Be fruitful, and multiply, and replenish the earth.

Lesson II
Gen 8:5-9
And the waters were going and decreasing until the tenth month: for in the tenth month, the first day of the month, the tops of the mountains appeared. And after that forty days were passed, Noe, opening the window of the ark which he had made, sent forth a raven: Which went forth and did not return, till the waters were dried up upon the earth. He sent forth also a dove after him, to see if the waters had now ceased upon the face of the earth. But she, not finding where her foot might rest, returned to him into the ark.

℟. The Lord said unto Noah: I do set My bow in the clouds of heaven, * And I will remember My covenant which is between Me and you.
℣. And it shall come to pass, when I bring a cloud over the heaven, that My bow shall be seen in the cloud.
℟. And I will remember My covenant which is between Me and you.

Lesson III
Gen 8:10-13
And having waited yet seven other days, he again sent forth the dove out of the ark. And she came to him in the evening, carrying a bough of an olive tree, with green leaves, in her mouth. Noe therefore understood that the waters were ceased upon the earth. And he stayed yet other seven days: and he sent forth the dove, which returned not any more unto him. Therefore in the six hundreth and first year, the first month, the first day of the month, the waters were lessened upon the earth.

℟. By Myself have I sworn, saith the Lord. I will not again bring the waters of the flood upon the earth, I will remember My covenant. * And the waters shall become no more a flood to destroy all flesh.
℣. I do set My bow in the clouds, and it shall be for a token of a covenant between Me and the earth.
℟. And the waters shall no more become a flood to destroy all flesh.
℣. Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, * and to the Holy Ghost.
℟. And the waters shall no more become a flood to destroy all flesh.
