Octave of St. Stephen
Simplex
[Sancti/01-02]

Lessons I–II: from the Scripture of the day.

Lesson III (when commemorated)
From the Sermons of St. Augustine, Bishop (of Hippo.)
2nd on St. Stephen.
Christ, the Captain of the Martyrs, hath first suffered for us, leaving us an example that we should follow His steps, (i Pet. ii. 21.) And truly, Blessed Stephen followed them, when, having confessed Christ, he was stoned to death by the Jews, and obtained the crown which his name had foreshown. For the meaning of the Greek name Stephanos is a crown. Already he had a crown for his name, a foreshadowing of the martyr's palm which he beareth in heaven. Then they stoned him he did not rejoice at the thought that God would take vengeance on his persecutors. On the contrary, he prayed that they might be forgiven.

[Te Deum follows]

Lesson IV
Commemoration of: Octave of St. Stephen
2nd on St. Stephen.
From the Sermons of St. Augustine, Bishop (of Hippo.)
Even after the glory of yesterday, bright with the splendour of Christ our Saviour's Birth, this day findeth itself an illumination of its own from the crown of the blessed Martyr Stephen. The whole earth knoweth how manfully he fought and conquered for he suffered at the very fountain-head of the Church, that is to say, in Jerusalem. It was in the Church there that he ministered as a Deacon and in the youthful springtime of life dyed with his blood the lily of his purity. His Passion is very glorious, and many ways wonderful, and when we read it in the Acts of the Apostles, we seem rather to see than to hear.
Christ, the Captain of the Martyrs, hath first suffered for us, leaving us an example that we should follow His steps, (i Pet. ii. 21.) And truly, Blessed Stephen followed them, when, having confessed Christ, he was stoned to death by the Jews, and obtained the crown which his name had foreshown. For the meaning of the Greek name Stephanos is a crown. Already he had a crown for his name, a foreshadowing of the martyr's palm which he beareth in heaven.
Then they stoned him he did not rejoice at the thought that God would take vengeance on his persecutors. On the contrary, he prayed that they might be forgiven. For he remembered the word of the Lord, that saith Vengeance belongeth unto Me, I will recompense, saith the Lord, (Heb. x. 30,) and again: Say not thou; I will recompense evil to mine enemies, but wait on the Lord, and He shall save thee. (Prov. xx. 22.) The Lord God biddeth us also be patient, knowing that in the great day of retribution, we, as well as His holy martyrs, shall be righted.

[Te Deum follows]
