Chair of St. Peter at Rome
Duplex majus
[Sancti/01-18]

Lesson IX: of St. Prisca, Virgin and Martyr (01-18r).

Lesson I
Lesson from the first letter of St. Peter the Apostle
1 Pet 1:1-5
Peter, an apostle of Jesus Christ, to the strangers dispersed through Pontus, Galatia, Cappadocia, Asia, and Bithynia, elect, According to the foreknowledge of God the Father, unto the sanctification of the Spirit, unto obedience and sprinkling of the blood of Jesus Christ: Grace unto you and peace be multiplied. Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, who according to his great mercy hath regenerated us unto a lively hope, by the resurrection of Jesus Christ from the dead, Unto an inheritance incorruptible, and undefiled, and that can not fade, reserved in heaven for you, Who, by the power of God, are kept by faith unto salvation, ready to be revealed in the last time.

℟. Simon Peter, before I called thee out of the ship, I knew thee, and appointed thee for a ruler over My people. * And I have given unto thee the keys of the kingdom of heaven.
℣. Whatsoever, thou shalt bind on earth, shall be bound in heaven; and whatsoever thou shalt loose on earth, shall be loosed in heaven.
℟. And I have given unto thee the keys of the kingdom of heaven.

Lesson II
1 Pet 1:6-9
Wherein you shall greatly rejoice, if now you must be for a little time made sorrowful in diverse temptations: That the trial of your faith much more precious than gold which is tried by the fire may be found unto praise and glory and honour at the appearing of Jesus Christ: Whom having not seen, you love: in whom also now, though you see him not, you believe: and believing shall rejoice with joy unspeakable and glorified; Receiving the end of your faith, even the salvation of your souls.

℟. Simon Peter, if thou lovest Me, feed My sheep. Lord, Thou knowest that I love thee; * I will lay down my life for thy sake.
℣. If I should die with thee, I will not deny thee.
℟. I will lay down my life for thy sake.

Lesson III
1 Pet 1:10-12
Of which salvation the prophets have inquired and diligently searched, who prophesied of the grace to come in you. Searching what or what manner of time the Spirit of Christ in them did signify: when it foretold those sufferings that are in Christ, and the glories that should follow: To whom it was revealed, that not to themselves, but to you they ministered those things which are now declared to you by them that have preached the gospel to you, the Holy Ghost being sent down from heaven, on whom the angels desire to look.

℟. Thou art Peter, and upon this rock I will build My Church, and the gates of hell shall not prevail against it. * And I will give unto thee the keys of the kingdom of heaven.
℣. Whatsoever thou shalt bind on earth, shall be bound in heaven; and whatsoever thou shalt loose on earth, shall be loosed in heaven.
℟. And I will give unto thee the keys of the kingdom of heaven.
℣. Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, * and to the Holy Ghost.
℟. And I will give unto thee the keys of the kingdom of heaven.

Lesson IV
From the Sermons of Pope St. Leo (the Great.)
First Sermon on the Holy Apostles Peter and Paul, before the middle.
When the twelve holy Apostles had received from the Holy Ghost the power to speak all languages, they divided the whole world into districts, which they severally allotted to themselves as fields for their Gospel labours. Then was Peter, the Prince of the Apostles, sent to the capital city of the Roman Empire, that he might cause the light to shine thence throughout the whole body of the civilized nations. At that time what nation was there that had no representative in Rome? When Rome had learnt, what people that did not learn too?

℟. Thou art the Shepherd of the sheep, and the Prince of the Apostles, and unto thee hath God given all the kingdoms of the world. * Therefore unto thee hath He given the keys of the kingdom of heaven.
℣. Whatsoever thou shalt bind on earth shall be bound in heaven; and whatsoever thou shalt loose on earth shall be loosed in heaven.
℟. Therefore unto thee hath He given the keys of the kingdom of heaven.

Lesson V
In Rome were the dreams of an unbelieving philosophy to be destroyed, in Rome were the empty utterances of earthly wisdom to be confuted, in Rome was idolatry to be overcome, in Rome profanity to be put down, even in Rome, where the activity of superstition had gathered together from the whole earth every error which it could find. O most blessed Apostle Peter! this was the city to which thou didst not shrink to come. The Apostle Paul, thy comrade in glory, was yet occupied in founding the Churches, and thou didst enter alone into that forest of wild beasts roaring furiously; thou didst commit thyself to that stormy ocean, more boldly than when thou walkest upon the waters to come to Jesus.

℟. Peter, I have prayed for thee, that thy faith fail not * And when thou art converted, strengthen thy brethren.
℣. Flesh and blood hath not revealed it unto thee, but My Father Which is in heaven.
℟. And when thou art converted, strengthen thy brethren.

Lesson VI
Thou hadst already taught them of the circumcision who were converted; thou hadst founded the Church of Antioch, the first that bore the noble name of Christian; thou hadst published the law of the Gospel throughout Pontus, Galatia, Cappadocia, Asia, and Bithynia; and thou didst not fear for the hardness of thy work, nor turn back because of thine old age, but didst boldly set up the trophy of the cross of Christ upon those Roman walls, where the Providence of God had appointed the throne of thine honour, and the glorious -scene of thy passion.

℟. Peter, lovest thou Me? Lord, Thou knowest that I love thee. * Feed My sheep.
℣. Simon, son of Jonas, lovest thou Me more than these? Lord, Thou knowest that I love thee.
℟. Feed My sheep.
℣. Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, * and to the Holy Ghost.
℟. Feed My sheep.

Lesson VII
From the Holy Gospel according to Matthew
Matt 16:13-19
At that time, Jesus came into the quarters of Cesarea Philippi: and he asked his disciples, saying: Whom do men say that the Son of man is? And so on.

Homily by St. Hilary, Bishop (of Poitiers.)
Commentary on Matthew xvi.
The Lord asketh His disciples who men say that He is, and He addeth, He, the Son of Man. Let us ever remember to hold fast this truth of our profession, namely, that the Son of God is the Son of Man also. Were He one and not the other, then were He no Saviour for us. The Lord then, having heard the various opinions of men, asketh, But Who say ye that I am? And Simon Peter answered and said Thou art the Christ, the Son of the living God. Peter had weighed the questions. The Lord had asked, Who do men say that I, the Son of Man, am? That He was Son of Man was sufficiently evident to all who looked upon His Body. But when He spake of His whole Self, and asked, Who do ye say that I am? He showed that the mind had something to grasp beyond That Which was seen, for Son of Man He was manifestly. What judgment did He wish them to give? I think it was not that which He had owned concerning Himself. That something more, which He wished them to own, was a hidden thing, whereunto the faith of them that believed in Him was to reach.

℟. Jesus asked His disciples, saying: Who do men say that I, the Son of Man, am? Peter answered, and said: Thou art the Christ, the Son of the living God. * And I say unto thee, that thou art Peter, and upon this rock I will build My Church.
℣. Blessed art thou, Simon Bar-Jona, for flesh and blood hath not revealed it unto thee, but My Father Which is in heaven.
℟. And I say unto thee, that thou art Peter, and upon this rock I will build My Church.

Lesson VIII
Peters confession was followed by a proper reward for having seen the Son of God in the Son of Man. Blessed is this holy Apostle, in whose praise it is said that he saw with more than human eyes That Which was unseen, who gazed upon Flesh and Blood, and by the secret revelation of the Heavenly Father recognised the Eternal Son of God; who was the first thought worthy to acknowledge the Divinity of Christ. {Here, if necessary, the Lesson is divided.) God bless thee, O Peter, thou who by uttering for the first time the title of Divine honour, didst lay the goodly foundation of the Church! God bless thee, thou worthy rock whereon she is built, for ever triumphant over the infernal powers, the gates of hell, and the bands of death! God bless thee, happy door-keeper of heaven, to whose keeping are given the keys of the everlasting mansions, whose sentences on earth are already confirmed in heaven so that whatsoever thou shalt bind on earth shall be bound in heaven, and whatsoever thou shalt loose on earth shall be loosed in heaven.

℟. The Lord hath chosen thee for a priest unto Himself, to offer up unto Him * The sacrifice of praise.
℣. Offer unto God thanksgiving, and pay thy vows unto the Most High.
℟. The sacrifice of praise.
℣. Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, * and to the Holy Ghost.
℟. The sacrifice of praise.
