St. Hilary, Bishop of Poitiers, Confessor and Doctor of the Church
Duplex
[Sancti/01-14]

Lessons I–III: from the Scripture of the day.
Lesson IX: of St. Felix, Priest and Martyr (01-14cc).

Lesson IV
This Hilary was born of a noble family in Aquitaine, and is distinguished as a divine and an orator. He was married in his earlier life, but even then lived the life of a monk and on account of his remarkable holiness, was ultimately made Bishop of Poitiers, (about the year 353,) in which office he did his duty so as to gain the universal praise of the faithful. At that time the Emperor Constantius was persecuting the Catholics by threats, by the plundering of their goods, by exile, and at length, by every species of cruelty, in order to force them to yield to the Arian heresy. Against the Arians Hilary set himself up as a brazen wall, and turned upon himself the fierceness of their anger. They assailed him by many artifices, and at last Saturnine, Bishop of Arles, at the Council of Beziers, (in 356,) procured his banishment to Phrygia. During this exile he raised a dead man to life, and wrote a work in twelve books on the Trinity, against the Arians.

℟. I have found David My servant, with My holy oil have I anointed him * For My hand shall help him.
℣. The enemy shall prevail nothing against him, nor the son of wickedness afflict him.
℟. For My hand shall help him.

Lesson V
In (the year 359,) the fourth of his exile, took place the Council of Seleucia in Isauria, at which Hilary was obliged to be present, but afterwards withdrew to Constantinople. Here he realised more sharply the awful nature of this crisis in the history of Christianity, published three pamphlets in the form of letters to the Emperor, and demanded from that Prince leave to hold a public disputation in his presence. The Arian Bishops Ursacius and Valens, whom Hilary had already confuted in writing, were afraid to meet him in debate, and therefore induced Constantius, under pretence of pardon, to send him back to his Bishopric, (in 360.) His mother, the Church of Gaul, to use the language of Jerome, received him with open arms on his return from the battle with the heretics. He was followed to Poitiers by Martin, afterwards Bishop of Tours, whose after holiness was a fruit of his teaching.

℟. I have laid help upon one that is mighty, and have exalted one chosen out of My people * For My hand shall help him.
℣. I have found David My servant, with My holy oil have I anointed him.
℟. For My hand shall help him.

Lesson VI
Henceforth he ruled the Church of Poitiers in great peace. By his exertions the Church of Gaul was led to denounce the Arian blasphemy. His wonderful learning is seen in his numerous works, of which Jerome write to Laeta that he deemeth them quite faultless. One can follow Hilary in his books, saith he, without tripping once. He passed from earth to heaven upon the thirteenth day of January, in the year of our Lord 369, in the reign of the Emperors Valentinian and Valens.
He had already been called an illustrious Doctor of the Church, by many Fathers and Councils, and was so styled in the Liturgy in some Dioceses, when at length, (in the year 1850,) Pope Pius IX., at the prayer of the Synod of Bordeaux, and in accordance with a resolution of the Sacred Congregation of Rites, proclaimed and confirmed the title, and commanded that the Mass and Office of his Feast should be everywhere said as those of a Doctor.

℟. This is he which wrought great wonders before God, and the whole earth is full of his teaching * May he pray for all people, that their sins may be forgiven unto them
℣. This is he which loved not his life in this world, and hath attained unto the kingdom of heaven.
℟. May he pray for all people, that their sins may be forgiven unto them
℣. Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, * and to the Holy Ghost.
℟. May he pray for all people, that their sins may be forgiven unto them

Lesson VII
From the Holy Gospel according to Matthew
Matt 5:13-19
At that time, Jesus said unto His disciples: Ye are the salt of the earth. But if the salt have lost his savour, wherewith shall it be salted. And so on.

Homily by St. Hilary, Bishop of Poitiers.
Comment, on Matth. V
“Ye are the salt of the earth. But if the salt have lost his savour, wherewith shall it be salted It is thenceforth good for nothing, but to be cast out, and to be trodden under foot of men.” There is, I take it, no such thing as salt of the earth. How, then, can the Apostles be called the salt of the earth? But the true meaning of these words will be made plain, when we consider the duty of Apostles, and the nature of salt itself. Now, salt is a compound of the elements of water and fire, out of the which two things in salt there is made one.

℟. The Lord loved him and beautified him He clothed him with a robe of glory * And crowned him at the gates of Paradise.
℣. The Lord hath put on him the breast-plate of faith, and hath adorned him.
℟. And crowned him at the gates of Paradise.

Lesson VIII
This thing, therefore, thus made to serve in diverse ways the use of men, doth keep from corruption bodies whereon it is sprinkled, and doth readily yield to all the senses the perception of its inborn savour. And thus are the Apostles, seeing that they are the preachers of the kingdom of heaven, and in a certain sense the sowers of the seed of life everlasting, since that Word of God which they scatter hath power to make this mortal put on immortality. Meetly then are they called salt, the savour of whose teaching doth keep sweet the receiver thereof even unto life everlasting.

℟. In the midst of the congregation did the Lord open his mouth. * And filled him with the spirit of wisdom and understanding.
℣. He made him rich with joy and gladness.
℟. And filled him with the spirit of wisdom and understanding.
℣. Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, * and to the Holy Ghost.
℟. And filled him with the spirit of wisdom and understanding.
