St. Marcellus, Pope and Martyr
Semiduplex
[Sancti/01-16]

Lessons I–III: from the Scripture of the day.
Lessons VII–IX: from the Common of a Single Martyr Pope (C2b).

Lesson IV
This Marcellus was a Roman, and held the supreme Pontificate from (the year of our Lord 304, in) the reign of Constantius and Galerius, till (310, in) that of Maxentius. It was through his persuasion that the Roman lady Lucina left the whole of her property to the Church of God. As the believers increased, he instituted new titles in the City, which he divided after the manner of dioceses for their convenience, and for the baptism and penance of heathens converted to Christianity, and for the burial of the martyrs. These proceedings excited the wrath of Maxentius, who threatened Marcellus with the heaviest punishment, unless he would lay down the Popedom and sacrifice to idols.

℟. The Lord made him honourable, and defended him from his enemies, and kept him safe from those that lay in wait for him, * And gave him perpetual glory.
℣. He went down with him into the pit, and left him not in bonds.
℟. And gave him perpetual glory.

Lesson V
The servant of God treated with contempt the mad cries of this man, who accordingly took him and sent him to a menagerie, to take care of the beasts which were fed at the public cost. Marcellus remained at this place for nine months, which he spent in continual fasting and prayer, and, as he could not visit the parishes in person, he wrote letters to them. Some clerks rescued him, and the blessed Lucina hospitably received him into her house, in which he dedicated a Church, which is now called St. Marcellus'. Here the Christians met to pray, and the blessed Marcellus himself preached.

℟. Lord, Thou hast given him his heart's desire. * And hast not withholden the request of his lips.
℣. For Thou hast prevented him with the blessings of sweetness: Thou hast set a crown of precious stones upon his head.
℟. And hast not withholden the request of his lips.

Lesson VI
These proceedings came to the knowledge of Maxentius, who thereupon had the wild beasts brought from the menagerie and located in the church, where Marcellus was made to feed them. The noisomeness of the place and the filthiness of his occupation broke down a constitution already enfeebled by many ailments, and he fell asleep in the Lord. The blessed Lucina buried his body in the cemetery of Priscilla, on the Salarian Way, on the 16th of January. He sat on the throne of Peter for five years, one month, and twenty-five days. He wrote an epistle to the Bishops of the Patriarchate of Antioch on the primacy of the Roman Church, wherein he proveth the right of the same Church to be called the head of all the Churches. In this letter he likewise saith that no Council can be lawfully gathered together except by the authority of the Roman Pontiff. He ordained at Rome in the month of December twenty - five Priests, two Deacons, and twenty - one Bishops for diverse Sees.

℟. The Lord hath put on him a robe of honour, * And put about his head a crown of joy.
℣. With the bread of life and understanding hath the Lord fed him, and given him the water of health and wisdom to drink.
℟. And put about his head a crown of joy.
℣. Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, * and to the Holy Ghost.
℟. And put about his head a crown of joy.
