St. Timothy, Bishop and Martyr
Duplex
[Sancti/01-24]

Lessons I–III: from the Scripture of the day.
Lessons VII–IX: from the Common of a Single Martyr Bishop (C2).

Lesson IV
Timothy was a native of Lystra in Lycaonia, born of a Gentile father and a Jewish mother. He embraced the Christian religion when the Apostle Paul came into those parts. The holy Apostle was so struck with the fame of Timothy's sanctity, that he chose him to be the companion of his journeys, and caused him to be circumcised, in order to remove a stumbling-block from the way of those Jews who felt drawn to Christianity. When they came together to Ephesus, the Apostle consecrated him Bishop of that Church.

℟. The Lord made him honourable, and defended him from his enemies, and kept him safe from those that lay in wait for him, * And gave him perpetual glory.
℣. He went down with him into the pit, and left him not in bonds.
℟. And gave him perpetual glory.

Lesson V
Two of the Apostle Paul's Epistles are addressed to this Saint, of which one was written from Laodicea, and the other from Rome. These sacred writings so stirred him up to the zealous discharge of his duties as a spiritual shepherd, that he strove to prevent the people of Ephesus from sacrificing to Artemis on her feastday, knowing that sacrifice is due to God alone. The heathens thereupon stoned him till he was well-nigh dead, and although he was rescued by the Christians, and carried to a mountain near the city, he then fell asleep in the Lord, on the 24th day of January.

℟. Lord, Thou hast given him his heart's desire. * And hast not withholden the request of his lips.
℣. For Thou hast prevented him with the blessings of sweetness: Thou hast set a crown of precious stones upon his head.
℟. And hast not withholden the request of his lips.

Lesson VI
From the Sermons of St Augustine, Bishop (of Hippo.)
44 on the Saints.
The illustrious day whereon the blessed Martyr Timothy conquered, doth this day come round to us again and as the Church doth rejoice with him in his glory, so doth she set before us his footsteps to be followed. For if we suffer, we shall also reign with him. In his glorious battle we have two things chiefly to consider the hardened cruelty of the tormentor, and the unconquered patience of the Martyr the cruelty of the tormentor, that we may abhor it; the patience of the Martyr, that we may imitate it. Hear what the Psalmist saith, complaining against sin: “Fret not thyself because of the evil-doers, for they shall soon dry up like the grass.” (xxxvi. 1.) But touching the patience which is to be shown against the evil-doers, hear the word wherewith the Apostle moveth us Ye have need of patience, that ye may receive the promise. (Heb. x. 36.)

℟. The Lord hath put on him a robe of honour, * And put about his head a crown of joy.
℣. With the bread of life and understanding hath the Lord fed him, and given him the water of health and wisdom to drink.
℟. And put about his head a crown of joy.
℣. Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, * and to the Holy Ghost.
℟. And put about his head a crown of joy.
