St. Polycarp, Bishop and Martyr
Duplex
[Sancti/01-26]

Lessons I–III: from the Scripture of the day.

Lesson IV
From the Book on Ecclesiastical Writers, composed by St. Jerome, Priest (at Bethlehem.)
Chapter 17
Polycarp was a disciple of the Apostle John, and was consecrated by him Bishop of Smyrna. He was reckoned the chief of all the Christians of Asia, because he had been taught by several of the Apostles, and other persons who had seen the Lord. During the reign of the Emperor Antoninus Pius, and while Anicetus presided over the Church of Rome, Polycarp came thither to discuss some questions regarding the time for observing Easter. He found some heretics at Rome, who had been led astray by the doctrine of Marcion and Valentine, and brought back many of them to the faith. One day Marcion met him by accident, and said to him: Do you recognise me? whereto he replied: I recognise the devil's eldest son. Some time after, in the reign of Mark Antonine and Lucius Aurelius Commodus, during the fourth persecution since Nero, when the Pro-consul was ruling in Smyrna, the whole population being assembled in the theatre, clamoured against Polycarp, and to please them he was burnt. He wrote an extremely useful Epistle to the Philippians, which is publicly read in the Churches of Asia even to this day.

℟. The Lord made him honourable, and defended him from his enemies, and kept him safe from those that lay in wait for him, * And gave him perpetual glory.
℣. He went down with him into the pit, and left him not in bonds.
℟. And gave him perpetual glory.

Lesson V
From the Exposition of the hundred-and-eighteenth Psalm by St. Ambrose, Bishop of Milan.
21st Sermon.
Princes have persecuted me I without a cause; but my heart standeth in awe of thy word. These are rightly the words of a martyr, who beareth unjustly the torments of the persecutors, who hath robbed no man, who hath violently oppressed no man, who hath shed the blood of no man, who hath imagined to defile the bed of no man, who is debtor to the laws in nothing, and who is punished more grievously than if he were a robber: who speaketh righteousness, and there is none that will hear: who speaketh salvation, and all men fight against him: who is able to say: “When I spoke unto them, they fought against me without a cause.” (Ps. cxix. 7.) They fight against him without a cause, who can lay no sin to his charge; they fight against him as an evildoer, who is by their own acknowledgment righteous: they fight against him as a warlock, who glorieth in the name of the Lord, and who doeth all things well because he doeth all things for God's sake.

℟. Lord, Thou hast given him his heart's desire. * And hast not withholden the request of his lips.
℣. For Thou hast prevented him with the blessings of sweetness: Thou hast set a crown of precious stones upon his head.
℟. And hast not withholden the request of his lips.

Lesson VI
They fight against him in vain who is accused of ungodliness among the ungodly and the unfaithful, because he teacheth Faith. Verily, him that is fought against without a cause it behoveth to be strong and patient. Wherefore then saith he: My heart standeth in awe of thy word? Awe is the mark of the weak, the timid, and the fearful But there is also a weakness unto salvation, there is a fear which is an holy fear. O fear the Lord, all ye His Saints. (Ps. xxxiii. 10.) And again: Blessed is the man that feareth the Lord. (Ps. cxi. i.) And wherefore is he blessed? because he delighteth greatly in His commandments.

℟. The Lord hath put on him a robe of honour, * And put about his head a crown of joy.
℣. With the bread of life and understanding hath the Lord fed him, and given him the water of health and wisdom to drink.
℟. And put about his head a crown of joy.
℣. Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, * and to the Holy Ghost.
℟. And put about his head a crown of joy.

Lesson VII
The Lesson is taken from the Holy Gospel according to Matthew
Matt 10:26-32
At that time, Jesus said unto His disciples: There is nothing covered, that shall not be revealed, and hid, that shall not be known. And so on.

Homily by St Hilary, Bishop (of Poitiers.)
Comm. on Matt Chap. 10
The Lord pointeth to the day of judgment, that day wherein the hidden counsels of the hearts shall be made manifest, and those things which are dark now shall be the subject of all men's knowledge. Therefore He warneth us not to fear threats, nor persuasions, nor the power of such as fight against us since in the day of judgment it will be manifest that all these things are null and void. “And what I tell you in darkness, that speak ye in light; and what ye hear in the ear, that preach ye upon the house-tops.” We read not that the Lord's use was to speak by night, or to tell His doctrine in darkness, but that to the carnal all His words were darkness, and to the unbelieving all His discourse night.

℟. A crown of gold upon his head, * Wherein is engraved Holiness, an ornament of honour, a costly work.
℣. For Thou hast prevented him with the blessings of sweetness, Thou hast set a crown of precious stones upon his head.
℟. Wherein is engraved Holiness, an ornament of honour, a costly work.

Lesson VIII
Therefore willeth He that that which He hath spoken, should be freely proclaimed in faith and in confession. Therefore commandeth He that that which He hath told in darkness shall be spoken in light, and that that which He hath made to be heard in the ear should be preached upon the house-tops, that is, with loud and high words. For it behoveth us ever to make God known, and to speak in the light of Apostolic preaching the dark things of the Gospel message, having no fear of them which have power over bodies, but none over our souls, but rather fearing God, Which is able to destroy both body and soul in hell.

℟. This is a Martyr indeed, who shed his blood for Christ's Name's sake * Who feared not for the threats of judges, nor sought to be great with the glory of this world, but pressed on unto the kingdom of heaven.
℣. The Lord guided the righteous in right paths, and showed him the kingdom of God.
℟. Who feared not for the threats of judges, nor sought to be great with the glory of this world, but pressed on unto the kingdom of heaven.
℣. Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, * and to the Holy Ghost.
℟. Who feared not for the threats of judges, nor sought to be great with the glory of this world, but pressed on unto the kingdom of heaven.

Lesson IX
Fear not them which kill the body. Therefore we need fear nothing which may chance to our bodies, nor sorrow because of the destruction of the flesh, when, according to the laws of our nature and that from whence we are taken, we are unclothed upon, and become a pure spirit. And, since it behoveth us who are rooted in such a doctrine, freely and constantly to confess God, even were it only because of the alternative whereby we are bound, He saith further: “Whosoever shall confess Me before men, him will I confess also before My Father, Which is in heaven. But whosoever shall deny Me before men, him will I also deny before My Father, Which is in heaven.” Such witnesses as He hath seen us to have been here to His name before men, such a Witness shall we find Him to be hereafter to our names before His Father Which is in heaven.

[Te Deum follows]
