Conversion of St. Paul the Apostle
Duplex majus
[Sancti/01-25]

Lesson I
Lesson from the Acts of the Apostles
Acts 9:1-5
And Saul, as yet breathing out threatenings and slaughter against the disciples of the Lord, went to the high priest, And asked of him letters to Damascus, to the synagogues: that if he found any men and women of this way, he might bring them bound to Jerusalem. And as he went on his journey, it came to pass that he drew nigh to Damascus; and suddenly a light from heaven shined round about him. And falling on the ground, he heard a voice saying to him: Saul, Saul, why persecutest thou me? Who said: Who art thou, Lord? And he: I am Jesus whom thou persecutest. It is hard for thee to kick against the goad.

℟. He That wrought effectually in Peter to the Apostleship, the Same was mighty in me toward the Gentiles, * And they perceived the grace that was given unto me of the Lord Christ.
℣. The grace of God which was bestowed upon me was not in vain, but His grace abideth ever in me.
℟. And they perceived the grace that was given unto me of the Lord Christ.

Lesson II
Acts 9:6-9
And he trembling and astonished, said: Lord, what wilt thou have me to do? And the Lord said to him: Arise, and go into the city, and there it shall be told thee what thou must do. Now the men who went in company with him, stood amazed, hearing indeed a voice, but seeing no man. And Saul arose from the ground; and when his eyes were opened, he saw nothing. But they leading him by the hands, brought him to Damascus. And he was there three days, without sight, and he did neither eat nor drink.

℟. I have fought a good fight, I have finished my course, I have kept the faith; * Henceforth there is laid up for me a crown of righteousness.
℣. I know Whom I have believed, and am persuaded that He is able to keep that which I have committed unto Him against that day.
℟. Henceforth there is laid up for me a crown of righteousness.

Lesson III
Acts 9:10-16
Now there was a certain disciple at Damascus, named Ananias. And the Lord said to him in a vision: Ananias. And he said: Behold I am here, Lord. And the Lord said to him: Arise, and go into the street that is called Straight, and seek in the house of Judas, one named Saul of Tarsus. For behold he prayeth. And he saw a man named Ananias coming in, and putting his hands upon him, that he might receive his sight. But Ananias answered: Lord, I have heard by many of this man, how much evil he hath done to thy saints in Jerusalem. And here he hath authority from the chief priests to bind all that invoke thy name. And the Lord said to him: Go thy way; for this man is to me a vessel of election, to carry my name before the Gentiles, and kings, and the children of Israel. For I will shew him how great things he must suffer for my name's sake.

℟. There is laid up for me a crown of righteousness: * Which the Lord, the righteous Judge, shall give me at that day.
℣. I know Whom I have believed, and am persuaded that He is able to keep that which I have committed unto Him against that day.
℟. Which the Lord, the righteous Judge, shall give me at that day.
℣. Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, * and to the Holy Ghost.
℟. Which the Lord, the righteous Judge, shall give me at that day.

Lesson IV
From the Sermons of St. Augustine, Bishop (of Hippo.)
14th on the Saints
We have this day heard read out of the Acts of the Apostles how that the Apostle Paul, from being a persecutor of the Christians, was changed into a preacher of Christ. Christ laid low the persecutor, that He might raise him up a teacher of His Church. He smote and healed him, slew him and made him alive again. For the Lord Christ is that Lamb That was Himself slain by the wolves, and That now turneth the wolves into lambs. Now was fulfilled in Paul that which was clearly spoken in prophecy by the Patriarch Jacob, when he blessed his children, laying hands indeed on them which then were, but looking forward to the things which were yet for to come. Paul beareth witness of himself that he was of the tribe of Benjamin, (Rom. xi. 1,) and when Jacob blessed his sons, and came to bless Benjamin, he said: Benjamin shall ravin as a wolf. (Gen. xlix. 27.)

℟. O Holy Apostle Paul, thou art a chosen vessel unto God, to preach the Gospel throughout the whole world * Through whom all nations have known the grace of God.
℣. Pray for us to God Who hath chosen thee.
℟. Through whom all nations have known the grace of God.

Lesson V
What then? Is Benjamin a wolf that shall ravin for ever? God forbid. In the morning he shall devour the prey, and at night he shall divide the spoil. This is exactly what was fulfilled in the Apostle Paul. If it please you, we will now consider how in the morning he devoured the prey, and at night divided the spoil. Here morning and evening are put for the beginning and the end. So we may read, In the beginning he shall devour the prey, and at the end he shall divide the spoil. First, then, in the beginning, he devoured the prey. So it is written that he received letters from the chief priests and went forth, that wheresoever he should find any Christians, he might bring them bound unto the priests, that they might be punished.

℟. By the grace of God I am what I am. * And His grace which was bestowed upon me was not in vain, but abideth ever in me.
℣. He that wrought effectually in Peter to the Apostleship, the Same was mighty in me toward the Gentiles.
℟. And His grace which was bestowed upon me was not in vain, but abideth ever in me.

Lesson VI
He went breathing out threatenings and slaughter, yea, truly, devouring the prey. When also they stoned Stephen, the first Martyr that laid down his life for Christ's name's sake, Saul was consenting unto his death, and, as though it contented him not to stone him, he kept the clothes of all them that did it, urging them on more than if he had joined them. So in the morning he devoured the prey. How in the evening did he divide the spoil? Struck down by the voice of Christ from heaven, ravining no more, he falleth upon his face, cast down to be raised up, smitten to be healed.

℟. Saul, who also is called Paul, was made a great preacher * And being of God increased the more in strength, he confounded the Jews.
℣. Proving that This is very Christ, the Son of God.
℟. And being of God increased the more in strength, he confounded the Jews.
℣. Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, * and to the Holy Ghost.
℟. And being of God increased the more in strength, he confounded the Jews.

Lesson VII
From the Holy Gospel according to Matthew
Matt 19:27-29
In that time, Peter said to Jesus said to him: Behold we have left all things, and have followed thee: what therefore shall we have? And so on.

Sermon of the Venerable Bede, Priest (at Jarrow)
Homily for St. Benedict's Birth-day
If thou wilt be perfect, saith Christ, go and sell that thou hast, and give to the poor, and come and follow Me and thou shalt have treasure in heaven. (Matth. xix. 21.) Yea, treasure that passeth not away! Unto such saith Jesus, at the questioning of Peter Amen I say unto you, that ye which have followed Me, in the regeneration, when the Son of Man shall sit in the throne of His glory, ye also shall sit upon twelve thrones, judging the twelve tribes of Israel. He taught them, which work for His Name's sake in this life, to look for their reward in another life that is, in the regeneration. In the regeneration! when we who have been born dying creatures into a dying life, shall in the resurrection be born again into an undying life.

℟. O Holy Apostle Paul, Preacher of the truth, and teacher of the Gentiles, * Pray for us to God, Who hath chosen thee, that we may be made worthy of the grace of God.
℣. O Holy Apostle Paul, thou art a chosen vessel unto God, and a Preacher of the truth.
℟. Pray for us to God Who hath chosen thee, that we may be made worthy of the grace of God.

Lesson VIII
And soothly, it is a just retribution, that they, who, while they were yet here, have for Christ's sake set no store by being great among men, should there by Christ be singularly glorified to be the assessors of His judgment-seat, even they whom nothing here could turn aside from being the followers of His footsteps. Nevertheless, let there be no man that believeth that the twelve Apostles only, among whom Matthias holdeth that place from which Judas by transgression fell, (Acts i. 25,) that they only shall judge, even as the twelve tribes of Israel shall not alone be judged for then were the tribe of Levi, which is the thirteenth, unjudged.

℟. In Damascus the governor under Aretas the king was desirous to apprehend me * And by the brethren in a basket was I let down by the wall, and so escaped I his hands, in the name of the Lord.
℣. The God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ knoweth that I lie not.
℟. And by the brethren in a basket was I let down by the wall.
℣. Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, * and to the Holy Ghost.
℟. And by the brethren in a basket was I let down by the wall.

Lesson IX
Moreover, then, were Paul, who is the thirteenth Apostle, deprived of all part in the judgment; whereas he saith of himself: Know ye not that we shall judge angels? How much more things that pertain to this life? But it behoveth us to know that every one who hath forsaken all and followed Christ, as did the Apostles, shall also come with Him to judgment, even as every man shall stand at His judgment seat. And the Scriptures use often to signify all by this number twelve; by the twelve thrones of the Apostles are signified the thrones of all them that shall judge; and by the twelve tribes of Israel, the whole number of them that shall be judged.

[Te Deum follows]
