St. John Chrysostom, Bishop, Confessor, and Doctor of the Church
Duplex
[Sancti/01-27]

Lessons I–III: from the Scripture of the day.

Lesson IV
John of Antioch, who, on account of the golden stream of his eloquence, is called by the Greeks Chrysostomos, or, the golden-mouthed, was a lawyer and man of the world of much eminence, before he turned his great intellect and wonderful industry to the study of things sacred. He took orders, and was ordained a priest of the Church of Antioch, (in the year of our Lord 386,) and after the death of Nectarius, was forced by the Emperor Arcadius to accept, though sorely against his own will, the Archbishopric of Constantinople. Having received the burden of a shepherd's office, (upon the 26th day of February,) in the year 398, he set himself zealously to do his duty, struggling against the degradation of public morality and the loose lives of the nobility, and thereby drew upon himself the ill-will of many enemies, especially the Empress Eudoxia, whom he had rebuked on account of the money of the widow Callitropa, and the land of another widow.

℟. I have found David My servant, with My holy oil have I anointed him * For My hand shall help him.
℣. The enemy shall prevail nothing against him, nor the son of wickedness afflict him.
℟. For My hand shall help him.

Lesson V
Come Bishops being assembled in a Council at Chalcedon, which Council the Saint held to be neither lawful, nor public, although he was commanded to go there, he refused. Whereupon Eudoxia, striving earnestly against him, caused him to be sent into exile. Soon after, however, the people of the city rose, and demanded his recall, and he was then brought back again amid great public rejoicings. Nevertheless he ceased not to war against vice, and absolutely forbade the celebration of public games round the silver statue of Eudoxia in the square outside the Church of the Eternal Wisdom. Upon this, a party of Bishops, who were enemies to him, banded together, and obtained that he should be banished again, which was done accordingly, (on the 20th day of June, 404,) amid the lamentations of widows and the poor, who felt as if they were being deprived of a common father. During this exile, it almost passeth belief how much Chrysostom suffered, and how many souls he turned to the faith which is in Christ Jesus.

℟. I have laid help upon one that is mighty, and have exalted one chosen out of My people * For My hand shall help him.
℣. I have found David My servant, with My holy oil have I anointed him.
℟. For My hand shall help him.

Lesson VI
At this time a Council was assembled at Rome, wherein Chrysostom's restoration to his See was decreed by Pope Innocent I., but meanwhile, he was suffering great hardships and cruelties on his journey at the hands of the soldiers who had him in charge. As he passed through Armenia he prayed in the Church of the holy martyr Basiliscus, and the same night that blessed conqueror appeared to him in a vision and said Brother John, to-morrow thou shalt be with me. On the next day, therefore, he received the Sacrament of the Eucharist, and, arming himself with the sign of the cross, resigned his soul to God, it being the 14th of September, (in the year of salvation, 407.) As soon as he was dead a furious hailstorm took place at Constantinople, and after four days the Empress died. The Emperor Theodosius, the son of Arcadius, brought the body of John Chrysostom to Constantinople with great state, and numerously attended, and on the 27th of January, (438,) laid it with magnificent honours in the grave, beside which he prayed for the forgiveness of his own father and mother. The holy body was afterwards taken to Rome, and is now buried in the Vatican Basilica. The number, devoutness, and brilliance of St. John Chrysostom's sermons and other writings, his acuteness in exposition, and the close aptness of his explanations of Holy Scripture, have been and are the object of universal wonder and admiration, and often seem not unworthy to have been dictated to him by the Apostle Paul, for whom he entertained a wonderful devotion.

℟. This is he which wrought great wonders before God, and the whole earth is full of his teaching * May he pray for all people, that their sins may be forgiven unto them
℣. This is he which loved not his life in this world, and hath attained unto the kingdom of heaven.
℟. May he pray for all people, that their sins may be forgiven unto them
℣. Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, * and to the Holy Ghost.
℟. May he pray for all people, that their sins may be forgiven unto them

Lesson VII
From the Holy Gospel according to Matthew
Matt 5:13-19
At that time: Jesus said unto His disciples: Ye are the salt of the earth. But if the salt have lost his savour, wherewith shall it be salted? And so on.

Homily by St John Chrysostom, Patriarch (of Constantinople.)
15/A on Matth.
Consider how that the Lord saith: “Ye are the salt of the earth,” by the which figure He showeth what a necessary of life is the Gospel. By this figure, He hath us to know that they unto whom He spake have an account to render, not of their own life only, but for the whole world. Not unto two cities, saith the Lord, nor unto ten, nor unto twenty, nor unto one people, as I sent the Prophets, send I you. But I send you unto every land and sea, even unto the whole world, lying groaning, as it is, under the burden of diverse sins.

℟. The Lord loved him and beautified him He clothed him with a robe of glory * And crowned him at the gates of Paradise.
℣. The Lord hath put on him the breast-plate of faith, and hath adorned him.
℟. And crowned him at the gates of Paradise.

Lesson VIII
These words, “Ye are the salt of the earth,” show unto us the whole nature of man as savourless and stinking with the strong corruption of sin. And therefore demandeth He of His Apostles such qualities as are most needful and useful to the furthering the salvation of many. He that is gentle and lowly, tender and just, shutteth not up all these good things in his own heart, but openeth these bright fountains that they may gush forth for the use of his neighbour. He whose heart is pure, and who seeketh peace, suffering persecution for the truth's sake, doth still lead a life for the good of the commonwealth.

℟. In the midst of the congregation did the Lord open his mouth. * And filled him with the spirit of wisdom and understanding.
℣. He made him rich with joy and gladness.
℟. And filled him with the spirit of wisdom and understanding.
℣. Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, * and to the Holy Ghost.
℟. And filled him with the spirit of wisdom and understanding.

Lesson IX
Think not, saith the Lord, that the struggle is easy whereunto ye shall be led, neither shall your reckoning be of light matters. Ye are the salt of the earth. Have ye then salted that which is corrupted? Nay, for it is impossible that that which is once corrupted can be made sound again by the rubbing it with salt. This it is not asked of them to do. But their work is to sprinkle with salt, and to keep fresh thereafter, such things as the Lord hath given over into their charge, and which He Himself hath made new, and freed from all taint, before giving them. To make sound after the corruption of sin, is the work of Christ's power alone; to preserve from falling away again, is the duty and the toil commanded to the Apostles.

[Te Deum follows]
