St. Romuald, Abbot
Duplex
[Sancti/02-07]

Lessons I–III: from the Scripture of the day.

Lesson IV
The holy Abbot Romuald was the son of one Sergius, of a noble family of Ravenna. While he was still very young, he went to a neighbouring monastery at Classis to do penance. While he was there he heard a discourse by a monk, which stirred him up strongly to aim at godliness of living; and he had afterwards in the Church by night two visions in which the blessed servant of God Apollinaris foretold to him that he should become a monk himself. He accordingly did so; and soon afterwards betook himself to one Marinus, whose holy life and strict discipline were then much noised about in all the coasts of the Venetians, that he might by his teaching and guidance attain towards the hard and lofty point of perfection.

℟. The Lord made him honourable, and defended him from his enemies, and kept him safe from those that lay in wait for him; * And gave him perpetual glory.
℣. He went down with him into the pit, and left him not in bonds.
℟. And gave him perpetual glory.

Lesson V
The more he was assailed by the wiles of Satan and the unkindness of men, the more did he exercise himself in lowliness, with continual fasting and prayer, and rejoice in thinking of heavenly things, with abundance of tears. And all the while he bore so bright a face as gladdened all who looked on him. He was held in great honour by princes and kings, and his counsel moved many to leave the blandishments of the world and withdraw to the desert. He had such a burning desire to obtain the crown of martyrdom that he set out for Pannonia on purpose to seek it, but, falling into sickness whenever he went forward though growing strong again whenever he drew back, he behoved to return home.

℟. The Lord loved him and beautified him; He clothed him with a robe of glory, * And crowned him at the gates of Paradise.
℣. The Lord hath put on him the breast-plate of faith, and hath adorned him.
℟. And crowned him at the gates of Paradise.

Lesson VI
God worked miracles by him both during his life and after his death, and likewise gave him the gift of prophecy. Like the Patriarch Jacob, he saw a ladder reaching from earth to heaven, and men in white garments ascending and descending upon it, in whom he marvellously knew were represented the monks of the Camaldolese Institute, of which he was the founder. At the age of 120 years, of which he had spent 100 in serving God in great hardness, he passed into His Presence, in the year of Salvation 1027. Five years after his death his body was found incorrupt, and laid in a magnificent grave in the Church of his order at Fabriano.

℟. This is he which did according unto all that God commanded him; and God said unto him: Enter thou into My rest, * For thee have I seen righteous before Me among all people.
℣. This is he which loved not his life in this world, and is come unto an everlasting kingdom.
℟. For thee have I seen righteous before Me among all people.
℣. Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, * and to the Holy Ghost.
℟. For thee have I seen righteous before Me among all people.

Lesson VII
From the Holy Gospel according to Matthew
Matt 19:27-29
In that time, Peter said to Jesus said to him: Behold we have left all things, and have followed thee: what therefore shall we have? And so on.

Sermon of the Venerable Bede, Priest (at Jarrow)
Homily for St. Benedict's Birth-day
If thou wilt be perfect, saith Christ, go and sell that thou hast, and give to the poor, and come and follow Me and thou shalt have treasure in heaven. (Matth. xix. 21.) Yea, treasure that passeth not away! Unto such saith Jesus, at the questioning of Peter Amen I say unto you, that ye which have followed Me, in the regeneration, when the Son of Man shall sit in the throne of His glory, ye also shall sit upon twelve thrones, judging the twelve tribes of Israel. He taught them, which work for His Name's sake in this life, to look for their reward in another life that is, in the regeneration. In the regeneration! when we who have been born dying creatures into a dying life, shall in the resurrection be born again into an undying life.

℟. This is he which wrought great wonders before God, and praised the Lord with all his heart. * May he pray for all people, that their sins may be forgiven unto them.
℣. Behold a man without blame, a worshipper of God in truth, keeping himself clean from every evil work, and abiding still in his innocency.
℟. May he pray for all people, that their sins may be forgiven unto them.

Lesson VIII
And soothly, it is a just retribution, that they, who, while they were yet here, have for Christ's sake set no store by being great among men, should there by Christ be singularly glorified to be the assessors of His judgment-seat, even they whom nothing here could turn aside from being the followers of His footsteps. Nevertheless, let there be no man that believeth that the twelve Apostles only, among whom Matthias holdeth that place from which Judas by transgression fell, (Acts i. 25,) that they only shall judge, even as the twelve tribes of Israel shall not alone be judged for then were the tribe of Levi, which is the thirteenth, unjudged.

℟. Let your loins be girded about, and your lights burning; * And ye yourselves like unto men that wait for their lord, when he will return from the wedding.
℣. Watch therefore, for ye know not what hour your Lord doth come.
℟. And ye yourselves like unto men that wait for their lord, when he will return from the wedding.
℣. Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, * and to the Holy Ghost.
℟. And ye yourselves like unto men that wait for their lord, when he will return from the wedding.

Lesson IX
Moreover, then, were Paul, who is the thirteenth Apostle, deprived of all part in the judgment; whereas he saith of himself: Know ye not that we shall judge angels? How much more things that pertain to this life? But it behoveth us to know that every one who hath forsaken all and followed Christ, as did the Apostles, shall also come with Him to judgment, even as every man shall stand at His judgment seat. And the Scriptures use often to signify all by this number twelve; by the twelve thrones of the Apostles are signified the thrones of all them that shall judge; and by the twelve tribes of Israel, the whole number of them that shall be judged.

[Te Deum follows]
