St. Titus, Bishop and Confessor
Duplex
[Sancti/02-06]

Lessons I–III: from the Scripture of the day.
Lesson IX: of St. Dorothy, Virgin and Martyr (02-06o).

Lesson IV
The Apostle Paul had no sooner by his preaching gathered the Cretans to the Sacraments and doctrines of the Christian Faith, than he made Titus their Bishop. It is agreed that the holiness of Titus shone with so bright a light before the infant Church, that he earned fellowship with the disciples of the Teacher of the Gentiles. Being taken to share in the work of preaching, he so endeared himself to Paul by his faithfulness and zeal in declaring the Gospel, that the Apostle saith When I came to Troas to preach Christ's Gospel, and a door was opened unto me of the Lord, I had no rest in my spirit, because I found not Titus my brother but taking my leave of them, I went from thence into Macedonia. (2 Cor. ii. 12, 13.) And again he saith: When we were come into Macedonia, our flesh had no rest, but we were troubled on every side; without were fightings, within were fears. Nevertheless, God, that comforteth those that are cast down, comforted us by the coming of Titus. (vii. 5, 6.)

℟. I have found David My servant, with My holy oil have I anointed him * For My hand shall help him.
℣. The enemy shall prevail nothing against him, nor the son of wickedness afflict him.
℟. For My hand shall help him.

Lesson V
It was this affection of Paul toward Titus, which had induced him to send him to Corinth upon a Mission which mainly concerned the collection of alms from the charity of the faithful for the relief of the poor Hebrew Saints at Jerusalem. This mission Titus discharged with such wisdom and gentleness, that he not only strengthened the Corinthians in the faith, but also stirred up in them an earnest desire, a mourning, a fervent mind toward Paul, their earliest teacher. ~(vii. 7.) Many were the other journeys by land and sea which Titus undertook in order to sow the seed of God's word among men of diverse nations, tongues, and countries. Filled with bold loyalty to the banner of the Cross, he went with Paul to the island of Crete. Of the Church of Crete the Apostle himself made him the first Bishop; and we may not doubt that, as such, he was what his Teacher bade him be, in all things showing himself a pattern of good works, in doctrine, in uncorruptness, in gravity. (Tit 2:7)

℟. I have laid help upon one that is mighty, and have exalted one chosen out of My people * For My hand shall help him.
℣. I have found David My servant, with My holy oil have I anointed him.
℟. For My hand shall help him.

Lesson VI
Like a candle, he gave forth the light of faith in the midst of men sitting in the darkness of idolatry and falsehood, as in the shadow of death. He is said to have sweated mightily to unfurl the banner of the Cross among the Dalmatians. He was full of days and good works, when, upon a 4th of January, in the 94th year of his age, he died one of those deaths which are precious in the sight of the Lord. He was buried in the Church of which the Apostle had made him the minister. His praises have been mostly written by St. John Chrysostom and St Jerome. The 4th of January is the day upon which his name is read in the Roman Martyrology, but Pope Pius IX. assigned for his Festival, to be kept with an Office and Mass by the clergy secular and regular throughout the Catholic world, the first free day afterwards.

℟. This is he which wrought great wonders before God, and the whole earth is full of his teaching * May he pray for all people, that their sins may be forgiven unto them
℣. This is he which loved not his life in this world, and hath attained unto the kingdom of heaven.
℟. May he pray for all people, that their sins may be forgiven unto them
℣. Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, * and to the Holy Ghost.
℟. May he pray for all people, that their sins may be forgiven unto them

Lesson VII
From the Holy Gospel according to Luke
Luke 10:1-9
At that time, the Lord appointed other seventy-two also, and sent them two and two before His face into every city and place, whither He Himself would come. And so on.

Homily by Pope St. Gregory (the Great.)
17th Homily on the Gospels
Dearly beloved brethren, our Lord and Saviour doth sometimes admonish us by words, and sometimes by works. Yea, His very works do themselves teach us for that which He doth silently His example still moveth us to copy. Behold how He sendeth forth His disciples to preach by two and two since there are two commandments to love, that is, a commandment to love God, and a commandment to love our neighbour and where there are not two, the one, being alone, hath not whereon to do the Lord's commandment. And no man can properly be said to love himself: for love tendeth outward toward our neighbour, if it be the love whereto the Gospel doth oblige us.

℟. The Lord loved him and beautified him He clothed him with a robe of glory * And crowned him at the gates of Paradise.
℣. The Lord hath put on him the breast-plate of faith, and hath adorned him.
℟. And crowned him at the gates of Paradise.

Lesson VIII
Behold, the Lord sendeth forth His disciples to preach by two and two and thus doing, He doth silently teach us that whosoever loveth not his neighbour, such a one it behoveth not to take upon him the office of a preacher. Well also is it said that He sent them before His face into every city and place whither He Himself would come. The Lord followeth His preachers first cometh preaching, and then the Lord Himself cometh to the house of our mind, whither the word of exhortation hath come before and so cometh the truth into our mind.

℟. Let your loins be girded about, and your lights burning; * And ye yourselves like unto men that wait for their lord, when he will return from the wedding.
℣. Watch therefore, for ye know not what hour your Lord doth come.
℟. And ye yourselves like unto men that wait for their lord, when he will return from the wedding.
℣. Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, * and to the Holy Ghost.
℟. And ye yourselves like unto men that wait for their lord, when he will return from the wedding.
