In Purificatione Beatæ Mariæ Virginis
Duplex II classis
[Sancti/02-02]

Lesson I
From the book of Exodus
Exod 13:1-3; 13:11-13
And the Lord spoke to Moses, saying: Sanctify unto me every firstborn that openeth the womb among the children of Israel, as well of men as of beasts: for they are all mine. And Moses said to the people: When the Lord shall have brought thee into the land of the Chanaanite, as he swore to thee and thy fathers, and shall give it thee: Thou shalt set apart all that openeth the womb for the Lord, and all that is first brought forth of thy cattle: whatsoever thou shalt have of the male sex, thou shalt consecrate to the Lord. The firstborn of an ass thou shalt change for a sheep: and if thou do not redeem it, thou shalt kill it. And every firstborn of men thou shalt redeem with a price.

℟. Make ready thy chamber, O Zion, to receive Christ thy King * Even that Child Whom a Virgin bore, and remained a Virgin as before the fruit of her womb and the God of her soul.
℣. Simeon took the Child up in his arms, and blessed God.
℟. Even that Child Whom a Virgin bore, and remained a Virgin as before the fruit of her womb and the God of her soul.

Lesson II
From the Book of Leviticus
Lev 12:1-5
And the Lord spoke to Moses, saying: Speak to the children of Israel, and thou shalt say to them: If a woman having received seed shall bear a man child, she shall be unclean seven days, according to the days of the separation of her flowers. And on the eighth day the infant shall be circumcised: But she shall remain three and thirty days in the blood of her purification. She shall touch no holy thing, neither shall she enter into the sanctuary, until the days of her purification be fulfilled. But if she shall bear a maid child, she shall be unclean two weeks, according to the custom of her monthly courses, and she shall remain in the blood of her purification sixty-six days.

℟. When the days of Mary's purification according to the law of Moses were accomplished, they brought Jesus to Jerusalem to present Him to the Lord; * As it is written in the law of the Lord: Every male that openeth the womb shall be called holy unto the Lord.
℣. They offered for Him unto the Lord a pair of turtle-doves or two young pigeons.
℟. As it is written in the law of the Lord: Every male that openeth the womb shall be called holy unto the Lord.

Lesson III
Lev 12:6-8
And when the days of her purification are expired, for a son, or for a daughter, she shall bring to the door of the tabernacle of the testimony, a lamb of a year old for a holocaust, and a young pigeon or a turtle for sin, and shall deliver them to the priest: Who shall offer them before the Lord, and shall pray for her, and so she shall be cleansed from the issue of her blood. This is the law for her that beareth a man child or a maid child. And if her hand find not sufficiency, and she is not able to offer a lamb, she shall take two turtles, or two young pigeons, one for a holocaust, and another for sin: and the priest shall pray for her, and so she shall be cleansed.

℟. They offered for Him unto the Lord a pair of turtle-doves, or two young pigeons * As it is written in the law of the Lord.
℣. And when the days of Mary's purification according to the law of Moses were accomplished, they brought Him to Jerusalem, to present Him to the Lord.
℟. As it is written in the law of the Lord.
℣. Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, * and to the Holy Ghost.
℟. As it is written in the law of the Lord

Lesson IV
From the Sermons of St. Augustine, Bishop (of Hippo.)
13th on the Season
In old time it was written: And of Zion shall it not be said This and that man was born in her, and the Highest Himself shall establish her? Blessed be the omnipotence of Him That was born! Blessed the glory of Him That came from heaven to earth! While yet He was borne in His Mother's womb, He was saluted by John the Baptist; He was presented in the temple, and recognised by that famous, ancient, and glorious worthy, the old man Simeon. As soon as he knew Him he worshipped Him, and said Lord, now lettest Thou thy servant depart in peace for mine eyes have seen thy Salvation.

℟. Simeon was just and devout, waiting for the redemption of Israel * And the Holy Ghost was upon him.
℣. It was revealed unto him by the Holy Ghost, that he should not see death, before he had seen the Lord's Christ.
℟. And the Holy Ghost was upon him.

Lesson V
He lingered in the world to see the birth of Him Who made the world. The old man knew the Child, and in that Child became a child himself, for in the love wherewith he regarded the Father of all, he felt his own years to be but as of yesterday. The old man Simeon bore the new-born Christ, and all the while, Christ was the old man's Lord. It had been told him by the Lord that he should not taste of death before he had seen the birth of the Lord's Christ. Now Christ is born, and all the old man's wishes on earth are fulfilled. He That came to a decrepit world came to an old man.

℟. It was revealed unto Simeon by the Holy Ghost that he should not see death before he had seen the Lord's Christ; * And he blessed God, and said: Lord, now lettest Thou thy servant depart in peace, for mine eyes have seen thy salvation.
℣. When His parents brought in the Child Jesus, to do for Him after the custom of the law, then took he Him up in his arms.
℟. And blessed God, and said Lord, now lettest Thou thy servant depart in peace, for mine eyes have seen thy salvation.

Lesson VI
He wished not to remain long in the world, but he longed to see Christ in the world, singing with the Prophet, and saying: Show us thy mercy, O Lord, and grant us thy salvation. (Ps. lxxxiv. 8.) And now at last, that ye may know that the cause of his joy was that this prayer was granted, he saith: Now lettest Thou thy servant depart in peace, for mine eyes have seen thy salvation. The Prophets have sung that the Maker of heaven and earth would converse on earth with men, an angel hath declared that the Creator of flesh and spirit would come in the flesh, the unborn John, yet in the womb, hath saluted the unborn Saviour yet in the womb. The old man Simeon hath seen God, a little Child.

℟. When His parents brought the Child Jesus into the temple, to do for Him after the custom of the law, Simeon took Him up in his arms, and blessed God, and said: * Lord, now lettest Thou thy servant depart in peace.
℣. Simeon took up the Child in his arms, and cried out, and said:
℟. Lord, now lettest Thou thy servant depart in peace.
℣. Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, * and to the Holy Ghost.
℟. Lord, now lettest Thou thy servant depart in peace.

Lesson VII
From the Holy Gospel according to Luke
Luke 2:22-32
In that time, after the days of her purification according to the law of Moses were accomplished, they carried him to Jerusalem to present him to the Lord, as it is written in the law of the Lord. And so on.

Homily on this passage by St. Ambrose, Bishop (of Milan.)
Bk. 2, Comm. on Luke II
And, behold, there was a man in Jerusalem, whose name was Simeon, and the same man was just and devout, waiting for the consolation of Israel. The birth of the Lord is attested not only by Angels and Prophets, and shepherds, but also by elders and just men. Every age, and both sexes, as well as the miracles of the events themselves, are here to strengthen our faith. A virgin conceiveth, a barren woman beareth, a dumb man speaketh, Elizabeth prophesieth, the wise man worshippeth, the unborn child leapeth, the widow praiseth, and the just man waiteth.

℟. Simeon took Jesus up in his arms, and cried out, and said: * Verily Thou art a light to lighten the Gentiles, and the Glory of thy people Israel.
℣. When His parents brought in the Child Jesus, then took he Him up in his arms, and blessed God, and said:
℟. Verily Thou art a light to lighten the Gentiles, and the Glory of thy people Israel.

Lesson VIII
Well is he called just, who looked not for favour for himself, but for consolation for his people. He desired to be set free from the bondage of this frail body, but he waited to see the Promised One for he knew that blessed are the eyes that see Him. Then took he Him up in his arms, and blessed God, and said: Lord, now lettest Thou thy servant depart in peace, according to thy word. Behold a just man, confined in the weary prison of the body, desiring to be dissolved and to begin to be with Christ. For to be dissolved and to be with Christ is much better. (Phil. i. 23.)

℟. The old man bore the Child, but the Child was the old man's King; * Even that Child Whom a virgin bore, and remained a virgin as before; and when that virgin had brought Him into the world, she fell down and worshipped Him.
℣. Simeon took the Child up in his arms, and gave thanks, and blessed the Lord.
℟. Even that Child Whom a virgin bore, and remained a virgin as before; and when that virgin had brought Him into the world, she fell down and worshipped Him.
℣. Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, * and to the Holy Ghost.
℟. Even that Child Whom a virgin bore, and remained a virgin as before; and when that virgin had brought Him into the world, she fell down and worshipped Him.

Lesson IX
Whosoever will be dissolved and be with Christ, let him come into the Temple, let him come to Jerusalem, let him wait for the Lord's Christ, let him take hold on the Word of God, let him embrace it with good works, as it were with arms of faith and then let him depart in peace, for he shall not see death, who hath seen life. Behold how the Lord's Birth doth overflow with abounding grace for all, and prophecy is not denied to the just, but to the unbelieving. Behold, Simeon prophesieth that the Lord Jesus Christ is come for the fall and rising again of many; yea, He shall separate the just from the unjust by their deserts, and according as our work shall be, so shall the true and righteous Judge command us to be punished or rewarded.

[Te Deum follows]
