The Apparition of the Immaculate Virgin Mary
Duplex majus
[Sancti/02-11]

Lesson I
Lesson from the book of Proverbs
Prov 8:12-17
I wisdom dwell in counsel, and am present in learned thoughts. The fear of the Lord hateth evil: I hate arrogance, and pride, and every wicked way, and a mouth with a double tongue. Counsel and equity is mine, prudence is mine, strength is mine. By me kings reign, and lawgivers decree just things, By me princes rule, and the mighty decree justice. I love them that love me: and they that in the morning early watch for me, shall find me.

℟. Wisdom which reacheth from end to end mightily, and ordereth all things sweetly, hath built herself a house: * Behold the tabernacle of God with men.
℣. I saw the holy city, the new Jerusalem, prepared as a bride adorned for her husband.
℟. Behold the tabernacle of God with men.

Lesson II
Prov 8:18-25
With me are riches and glory, glorious riches and justice. For my fruit is better than gold and the precious stone, and my blossoms than choice silver. I walk in the way of justice, in the midst of the paths of judgment, That I may enrich them that love me, and may fill their treasures. The Lord possessed me in the beginning of his ways, before he made any thing from the beginning. I was set up from eternity, and of old before the earth was made. The depths were not as yet, and I was already conceived. neither had the fountains of waters as yet sprung out: The mountains with their huge bulk had not as yet been established: before the hills I was brought forth:

℟. As the rainbow giving light in the clouds, and as the flower of roses in the days of the spring, and as the lilies on the brink of the water, * Thus shineth the Virgin immaculate.
℣. I will set my bow in the clouds, and it shall be a sign of my covenant with you.
℟. Thus shineth the Virgin immaculate.

Lesson III
Prov 8:34-36; 9:1-5
Blessed is the man that heareth me, and that watcheth daily at my gates, and waiteth at the posts of my doors. He that shall find me, shall find life, and shall have salvation from the Lord: But he that shall sin against me, shall hurt his own soul. All that hate me love death. Wisdom hath built herself a house, she hath hewn her out seven pillars. She hath slain her victims, mingled her wine, and set forth her table. She hath sent her maids to invite to the tower, and to the walls of the city: Whosoever is a little one, let him come to me. And to the unwise she said: Come, eat my bread, and drink the wine which I have mingled for you.

℟. Arise, my love, my beautiful one, and come, my dove: * Shew me thy face, let thy voice sound in my ears.
℣. The voice of the turtle is heard in our land.
℟. Shew me thy face, let thy voice sound in my ears
℣. Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, * and to the Holy Ghost.
℟. Shew me thy face, let thy voice sound in my ears

Lesson IV
In the fourth year from the dogmatic definition of the Immaculate Conception of the Blessed Virgin, at the bank of the river Gave near the town of Lourdes of the diocese of Tarbes in France, the Virgin herself in a bend of the rock above the grotto of Massabiele, often shewed herself to a certain girl, called in the vernacular tongue Bernadette, indeed most poor but noble and pious, to be seen. The Immaculate Virgin appeared with a young and kind appearance, clothed with a white garment and white veil, and girt with a blue girdle; she adorned her bare feet with a golden rose. On the first day of the apparition, which was the eleventh of February in the one thousand eight hundred fifty-eighth year, she taught the girl the sign of the cross to be duly and piously made, and she incited her, by her example, to the recitation of the sacred rosary, turning over with her hand the chaplet, which before was hanging down from her arm: which she supplied also in the other apparitions. And on the second day of the apparition, the girl in the simplicity of her heart, fearing diabolic fraud, flung holy water on the Virgin; but the blessed Virgin, smiling gently, shewed her face more kindly to her. And when she appeared a third time, she invited the girl to the grotto for fifteen days. Thence she often addressed her; then commanded, that it might be declared to the priests, a chapel to be built there, and to be approached there for supplications in a manner of solemnity. Moreover she commanded that from the spring, which thus far was hidden under the sand but now was about to erupt, she might drink the water, and by it cleanse herself. Finally on the feast day of the Annunciation, to the girl earnestly inquiring her name, the Virgin, for whose appearance she was so often deemed worthy, the Virgin, her hands having been moved to her breast and her eyes raised to heaven, answered: I am the Immaculate Conception.

℟. Who is she, that cometh forth as the morning rising, * Fair as the moon, bright as the sun?
℣. She is my dove, my perfect one, my undefiled.
℟. Fair as the moon, bright as the sun?

Lesson V
The fame of favours becoming widespread, which the faithful were said to have received in the sacred grotto, in time the assembly of men increased, whom the sanctity of the place called to the grotto. Therefore the bishop of Tarbes moved by the fame of the wonders and the purity of the girl, after a juridical inquiry of the happenings, approved by his decree the signs of the apparition to be supernatural, and permitted the worship of the immaculate Virgin in the same grotto. Soon a chapel is built: from that day the almost innumerable crowds of the faithful, for the purpose of prayer and supplication, from France, Belgium, Italy, Spain, and the other provinces of Europe and also from the remote regions of America arrived there in every year, and the name of the Immaculate of Lourdes becometh famous of countries everywhere. The water of the spring, having been carried into all parts of the world, restored health to the sick. And the Catholic world mindful of such great favours, built holy shrines there with wonderful work. Innumerable banners, as if monuments of received benefits, sent there by cities and nations, decorate the shrine of the Virgin with wonderful adornment. In this as if her own seat the immaculate Virgin is continually honoured: indeed by day with prayers, religious chant and other solemn ceremonies; and by night with those solemn supplications, by which the almost infinite crowds of pilgrims proceed with candles and lit torches and sing the praises of the blessed Virgin.

℟. In the last days the mountain a house for the Virgin Mary shall be prepared on the top of mountains, and it shall be exalted above the heavens, and many people shall go and say: * Come and let us go up to the mountain.
℣. The dwelling in thee is as it were of all rejoicing.
℟. Come and let us go up to the mountain.

Lesson VI
It is known by all for certain the pilgrimages of this sort to have stirred up faith, in a world becoming cold, the soul to have increased to profess the Christian law, and to have spread the worship of the immaculate Virgin in a wonderful manner. In which wonderful profession of faith the Christian people have the priests as leaders, who lead their people thence. The holy Bishops themselves also frequently visit the holy place, lead pilgrimages, and take part in more solemn feasts. Nor indeed is it rare to observe these empurpled fathers of the Roman Church approaching humble in the manner of pilgrims. Even these Roman Pontiffs, for their piety towards the Immaculate of Lourdes, enhanced the sacred shrine with most noble gifts. Pius the ninth, with sacred indulgences, distinguished it with the privilege of an archconfraternity and title of a minor Basilica; and willed the image honoured there of the Godbearer, with solemn rite through his apostolic legate in France, to be adorned with a crown. And Leo the thirteenth also conferred innumerable benefits, granted indulgences in the manner of a jubilee in the twenty-fifth year of the Apparition occurring, promoted pilgrimages by his authority and word, and arranged to complete by his name the solemn dedication of the Church under the title of the Rosary. He accumulated the extent of which benefits, when, with the asking of many bishops, he kindly granted a solemn feast to be celebrated under the title of the Apparition of the blessed Virgin Mary immaculate with a proper Office and proper Mass. Finally supreme Pontiff Pius the tenth for his piety towards the Godbearer, and agreeing to the wishes of many holy Bishops, extended the same feast to the universal Church.

℟. Thou hast prevented her, O Lord, with blessings of sweetness, thou hast set on her head * A crown of precious stones.
℣. Her glory is great in thy salvation, glory and great beauty shalt thou lay upon her.
℟. A crown of precious stones.
℣. Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, * and to the Holy Ghost.
℟. A crown of precious stones.

Lesson VII
From the Holy Gospel according to Luke
Luke 1:26-28
In that time the angel Gabriel was sent from God into a city of Galilee, called Nazareth, To a virgin espoused to a man whose name was Joseph, of the house of David; and the virgin's name was Mary. And so on.

Homily by St. Bernard, Abbot (of Clairvaux.)
2nd on this text.
Rejoice, father Adam, and yet more thou mother Eve, ye that are the source of all, and the ruin of all, and the unhappy cause of their ruin before ye gave them birth. Be comforted both in your daughter, and such a daughter; but chiefly thou, O woman, of whom the first evil came, and who hast cast thy slur upon all women. The time is come for the slur to be taken away, and for the man to have nothing to say against the woman. At the first, when he unwisely began to make excuse, he scrupled not to throw the blame upon her, saying, The woman whom Thou gavest to be with me, she gave me of the tree, and I did eat. Wherefore, O Eve, betake thyself to Mary Mother, betake thyself to thy daughter let the daughter answer for the mother let her take away her mother's reproach; let her make up to her father for her mother's fault for if man be fallen by means of woman, it is by means of woman that he is raised up again.

℟. Therefore do thou call upon the Lord, speak to the King for us, * And deliver us from death.
℣. All you that thirst, come to the waters, and draw salvation from the Lord.
℟. And deliver us from death.

Lesson VIII
What didst thou say, O Adam? The woman whom Thou gavest to be with me, she gave me of the tree, and I did eat. These are wrathful words, by the which thou dost rather magnify than diminish thine offence. Nevertheless, Wisdom hath defeated thy malice. God asked thee that He might find in thee an occasion of pardon, but, in that He found it not, He hath sought and found it in the Treasure of His Own mercy. One woman answereth for another; the wise for the foolish; the lowly for the proud; for her that gave thee of the tree of death, another that giveth thee to taste of the tree of life; for her that brought thee the bitter food of sin, another that giveth thee of the sweet fruits of righteousness. Wherefore accuse the woman no more, but speak in thanksgiving, and say, Lord, the woman whom Thou hast given me, she hath given me of the tree of life, and I have eaten; and it is in my mouth sweeter than honey, for thereby hast Thou quickened me. (Ps. cxviii. 103, 93.) Behold, it was for this that the angel Gabriel was sent to the Virgin, to the most worshipful of women, a woman more wonderful than all women, the restorer of them that went before, and the quickener of them that come after her.

℟. The Lord God planted a paradise of pleasure, and brought forth the tree of life in its midst: * And a river went out of the place of pleasure.
℣. Thy plants are a paradise, O Virgin Mary.
℟. And a river went out of the place of pleasure.
℣. Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, * and to the Holy Ghost.
℟. And a river went out of the place of pleasure.

Lesson IX
Has it not of this thy daughter, O Adam, that God spake when He said unto the serpent, I will put enmity between thee and the woman And if thou wilt still doubt that He speaketh of Mary, hear what followeth She shall bruise thy head. Who won this conquest but Mary? She brought to nought the whole wiles of Satan, whether for the pollution of her body or the injury of her soul. Was it not of her that Solomon spake, where he saith, Who shall find a virtuous woman? (Prov. xxxi. 10.) The wise man knew the weaknesses of women, how frail they are in body, and how changeable in mind. But he had read that God had promised that the enemy, who had prevailed by means of a woman, was by a woman to be overthrown, and he believed. But he wondered greatly, and said, Who shall find a virtuous woman? that is to say If our salvation, and the bringing back of that which is lost, and the final triumph over the enemy, is in the hand of a woman, it must needs be that a virtuous woman be found, meet to work in that matter

[Te Deum follows]
