St. Casimir, Confessor
Semiduplex
[Sancti/03-04]

Lessons I–III: from the Common of a Confessor not a Bishop (C5), set 2.
Lessons VII–VIII: from the Common of a Confessor not a Bishop (C5).
Lesson IX: from the Scripture of the day.

Lesson IV
This Casimir was the son of Casimir III, King of Poland, by Elizabeth of Austria, his wife, (and was born upon the 3rd day of October, in the year 1458.) From his childhood he was taught by the best masters, and was trained in all godliness and good learning. While he was still a boy he wore rough haircloth, and chastened himself with much fasting. He forsook the softness of his princely bed, and lay upon the hard ground, and on stormy nights he would go out secretly and prostrate himself before the doors of the churches, crying to God for mercy. He was unwearied in contemplating the Passion of Christ, and when he was present at Mass, so profound was his recollection, that he seemed to be altogether beside himself.

℟. The Lord made him honourable, and defended him from his enemies, and kept him safe from those that lay in wait for him; * And gave him perpetual glory.
℣. He went down with him into the pit, and left him not in bonds.
℟. And gave him perpetual glory.

Lesson V
He made the propagation of the Catholic faith one of the chief works of his life, and strove hard against the schism in Ruthenia. He persuaded his father to forbid by law that the schismatics should build any new churches, or repair the existing ones when they fell into decay. So great was his liberality and tenderness toward the needy and the afflicted, that he came to be called the father and guardian of the poor. From his infancy he never soiled his purity, and in his last illness, when his physicians advised him to seek for relief from his grievous sufferings by the sacrifice of his chastity, he cheerfully determined rather to die.

℟. The Lord loved him and beautified him; He clothed him with a robe of glory, * And crowned him at the gates of Paradise.
℣. The Lord hath put on him the breast-plate of faith, and hath adorned him.
℟. And crowned him at the gates of Paradise.

Lesson VI
Being made perfect in a short space, and full of piety and good works, he foretold the day of his own death, and, gathering round him a choir of priests and monks, he rendered his soul into the hands of God Whom they were praising, ~(upon the 4th day of March, in the year of our Lord 1482, and) the 25th of his own age. His body was carried to Wilna, where many miracles are reputed to have been wrought around it. At his grave a dead girl is said to have received her life again, blind men their sight, cripples the power of walking, and many sick folk health. Moreover, on an occasion when the Lithuanians in scanty numbers were exposed to the shock of a powerful enemy, they believed that he appeared in the air, and gave them the signal victory which they won. On the assurance of these things, Leo X. was moved to add his name to those of the Saints.

℟. This is he which did according unto all that God commanded him; and God said unto him: Enter thou into My rest, * For thee have I seen righteous before Me among all people.
℣. This is he which loved not his life in this world, and is come unto an everlasting kingdom.
℟. For thee have I seen righteous before Me among all people.
℣. Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, * and to the Holy Ghost.
℟. For thee have I seen righteous before Me among all people.
