St. John Damascene, Confessor
Duplex
[Sancti/03-27]

Lesson IX: from the Scripture of the day.

Lesson I
Lesson from the book of Ecclesiasticus
Sir 39:1-5
The wise men will seek out the wisdom of all the ancients, and will be occupied in the prophets. He will keep the sayings of renowned men, and will enter withal into the subtilties of parables. He will search out the hidden meanings of proverbs, and will be conversant in the secrets of parables. He shall serve among great men, and: appear before the governor. He shall pass into strange countries: for he shall try good and evil among men.

℟. Well done, thou good and faithful servant, thou hast been faithful over a few things. I will make thee ruler over many things: * Enter thou into the joy of thy Lord.
℣. Lord, thou deliveredst unto me five talents; behold, I have gained beside them five talents more.
℟. Enter thou into the joy of thy Lord.

Lesson II
Sir 39:6-10
He will give his heart to resort early to the Lord that made him, and he will pray in the sight of the most High. He will open his mouth in prayer, and will make supplication for his sins. For if it shall please the great Lord, he will fill him with the spirit of understanding: And he will pour forth the words of his wisdom as showers, and in his prayer he will confess to the Lord. And he shall direct his counsel, and his knowledge, and in his secrets shall he meditate.

℟. The righteous shall grow as the lily; * Yea, he shall flourish in the presence of the Lord for ever.
℣. Those that be planted in the house of the Lord, shall flourish in the courts of the house of our God.
℟. Yea, he shall flourish in the presence of the Lord for ever.

Lesson III
Sir 39:11-14
He shall show forth the discipline he hath learned, and shall glory in the law of the covenant of the Lord. Many shall praise his wisdom, and it shall never be forgotten. The memory of him shall not depart away, and his name shall be in request from generation to generation. Nations shall declare his wisdom, and the church shall show forth his praise.

℟. This is he which knew righteousness, and saw great wonders, and made his prayer unto the Most High; * And he is numbered among the Saints.
℣. This is he which loved not his life in this world, and is come unto an everlasting kingdom.
℟. And he is numbered among the Saints.
℣. Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, * and to the Holy Ghost.
℟. And he is numbered among the Saints.

Lesson IV
This John is called John of Damascus, from his native place. He was of noble birth, and studied sacred and profane letters at Constantinople, under the monk Cosmas. At what time the Emperor Leo the Isaurian was making a wicked attack upon the honouring of holy images, John, at the desire of the Roman Pontiff, Gregory III., earnestly defended both by his words and his writings, the holiness of this honour. By this he roused against him so great a hatred on the part of Leo, that that Prince, by forged letters, accused John as a traitor to the Caliph of Damascus, whom he was serving as a councillor and minister. John denied the charge, but the Caliph was deceived by it, and caused his right hand to be cut off. He called earnestly for the help of the. most holy Virgin, and she manifested the innocency of her servant by reuniting his hand to his arm, as though it had never been cut off. This miracle moved John to carry out a design which he had long had in mind. He obtained from the Caliph, albeit with difficulty, leave to go away, distributed all his goods to feed the poor, and freed all his slaves, then visited as a pilgrim the holy places in Palestine, and at length withdrew, along with his teacher Cosmas, to the monastery of St. Saba, between Jerusalem and the Dead Sea. There he was ordained priest.

℟. The Lord made him honourable, and defended him from his enemies, and kept him safe from those that lay in wait for him; * And gave him perpetual glory.
℣. He went down with him into the pit, and left him not in bonds.
℟. And gave him perpetual glory.

Lesson V
As a monk John set a bright example to all the others, especially as regarded lowliness and obedience. He sought for the lowest offices in the community, as though they were in a peculiar sense his own, and fulfilled them with the greatest care. When he was sent to Damascus to sell baskets made by himself, he welcomed the mockery and jests of the lowest classes in that city where he had before time been charged with the most honourable offices. He was so devoted to obedience that he not only started up to obey every nod of his superiors, but also never thought it right to ask the reason of any duty laid upon him, however difficult or however strange it might be. While thus living he never ceased earnestly to defend the Catholic doctrine as to the honouring of holy images. For this reason he drew upon himself the hatred and persecution of the Emperor Constantine Copronymus, as he had first done that of the Emperor Leo the Isaurian, and this all the more because he freely rebuked the arrogance of these Emperors, who must needs take in hand matters concerning the faith, and pronounce sentence upon them according to their own judgment.

℟. The Lord loved him and beautified him; He clothed him with a robe of glory, * And crowned him at the gates of Paradise.
℣. The Lord hath put on him the breast-plate of faith, and hath adorned him.
℟. And crowned him at the gates of Paradise.

Lesson VI
It is a marvel how many things John devised both for the protection of the faith, and for the encouragement of godliness, and expressed in his writings both in prose and verse. He was worthy of the high praise which was given him by the Second Council of Nicea. On account of the golden streams of his eloquence, he was surnamed Chrysorrhoas, or John of the golden streams. It was not against the enemies of holy images alone that he defended the orthodox faith. He fought stoutly against the Acephali, the Monothelites, and the Theopaschites. He maintained the laws and the power of the Church. He taught with great learning the Primacy of the Prince of the Apostles, and many times calleth him the Pillar of the Churches, the unbroken rock, and the Teacher and Ruler of the world. The whole of his writings are not only steeped in learning and teaching, but have a certain savour of simple piety, especially when he is praising the Mother of God, toward whom he was filled with a special reverence and love. But the greatest praise of John is that he was the first who arranged in order a complete course of theology, and prepared the way in which holy Thomas of Aquino has so clearly dealt with the whole body of sacred doctrine. This truly holy man, full of days and good works, fell asleep in the peace of Christ about the year of salvation 754. The supreme Pontiff, Leo XIII., established his office and Mass throughout the universal church, whereof he also gave him the title of doctor.

℟. This is he which did according unto all that God commanded him; and God said unto him: Enter thou into My rest, * For thee have I seen righteous before Me among all people.
℣. This is he which loved not his life in this world, and is come unto an everlasting kingdom.
℟. For thee have I seen righteous before Me among all people.
℣. Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, * and to the Holy Ghost.
℟. For thee have I seen righteous before Me among all people.

Lesson VII
From the Holy Gospel according to Luke
Luke 6:6-11
At that time: It came to pass also on another Sabbath, that Jesus entered into the synagogue, and taught; and there was there a man whose right hand was withered. And so on.

Homily by St. Peter Chrysologus.
Sermon 32
This man is a figure of all men. His healing is a type of their healing, and his soundness is a pledge of that soundness for which all have looked so long. The hand of man hath withered through the deadness of faith rather than through the drying up of the sinews, and by the fault of the conscience rather than by the weakness of the flesh. The withering up of man's hand hath been of old time, and a sickness which smote him at the very beginning of the world, and no art or benefit of man could heal that which had been blasted by the wrath of God. That hand had touched the forbidden thing, it had sought that which was unlawful when it had been stretched out to the tree of the knowledge of good and evil. It had need of Him who had made it, not to lay a plaster upon it, but to cancel the sentence which He had uttered, and to loosen by pardon that which He had bound by judgment.

℟. This is he which wrought great wonders before God, and praised the Lord with all his heart. * May he pray for all people, that their sins may be forgiven unto them.
℣. Behold a man without blame, a worshipper of God in truth, keeping himself clean from every evil work, and abiding still in his innocency.
℟. May he pray for all people, that their sins may be forgiven unto them.

Lesson VIII
This man's healing is a type of the healing of all men, our perfect health is to be found in Christ, then shall our miserable hand be withered no more when there droppeth thereon the Blood of the Suffering Lord, when it is stretched forth to the Tree of Life, which is the Cross. When it gathereth the mighty fruit of His suffering, when it layeth hold upon the Tree of Salvation, when the body is so nailed thereto with the nails of the Lord that it can never return again to the tree of lust and barren enjoyment. And He said to the man which had the withered hand, Rise up, and stand forth in the midst. Rise up and stand forth in the midst, O Thou that dost confess thine own weakness, thou that dost call for pity from on high, thou that canst witness to the power of God; rise up and stand forth in the midst, thou that tellest of the unbelief of the Jews; the power of so many signs hath not pierced them, so many works of healing hath not beset them; let the pity shown to such misery constrain them and soften them.

℟. In the midst of the congregation did the Lord open his mouth. * And filled him with the spirit of wisdom and understanding.
℣. He made him rich with joy and gladness.
℟. And filled him with the spirit of wisdom and understanding.
℣. Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, * and to the Holy Ghost.
℟. And filled him with the spirit of wisdom and understanding.
