St. Hermenegild, Martyr
Semiduplex
[Sancti/04-13]

Lessons I–III: from the Scripture of the day.

Lesson I
Lesson from the letter of St Paul the Apostle to the Romans
Rom 8:12-19
Therefore, brethren, we are debtors, not to the flesh, to live according to the flesh. For if you live according to the flesh, you shall die: but if by the Spirit you mortify the deeds of the flesh, you shall live. For whosoever are led by the Spirit of God, they are the sons of God. For you have not received the spirit of bondage again in fear; but you have received the spirit of adoption of sons, whereby we cry: Abba, Father. For the Spirit himself giveth testimony to our spirit, that we are the sons of God. And if sons, heirs also; heirs indeed of God, and joint heirs with Christ: yet so, if we suffer with him, that we may be also glorified with him. For I reckon that the sufferings of this time are not worthy to be compared with the glory to come, that shall be revealed in us. For the expectation of the creature waiteth for the revelation of the sons of God

℟. This man is holy, for he hath striven for the law of his God even unto death, and hath not feared for the words of the ungodly; * For he had his foundation upon a strong rock.
℣. This is he which loved not his life in this world, and is come unto an everlasting kingdom.
℟. For he had his foundation upon a strong rock.

Lesson II
Rom 8:28-34
And we know that to them that love God, all things work together unto good, to such as, according to his purpose, are called to be saints. For whom he foreknew, he also predestinated to be made conformable to the image of his Son; that he might be the firstborn amongst many brethren. And whom he predestinated, them he also called. And whom he called, them he also justified. And whom he justified, them he also glorified. What shall we then say to these things? If God be for us, who is against us? He that spared not even his own Son, but delivered him up for us all, how hath he not also, with him, given us all things? Who shall accuse against the elect of God? God that justifieth. Who is he that shall condemn? Christ Jesus that died, yea that is risen also again; who is at the right hand of God, who also maketh intercession for us.

℟. The righteous shall grow as the lily * Yea, he shall flourish in the presence of the Lord for ever.
℣. Those that be planted in the house of the Lord, shall flourish in the courts of the house of our God.
℟. Yea, he shall flourish in the presence of the Lord for ever.

Lesson III
Rom 8:35-39
Who then shall separate us from the love of Christ? Shall tribulation? or distress? or famine? or nakedness? or danger? or persecution? or the sword? As it is written: For thy sake we are put to death all the day long. We are accounted as sheep for the slaughter. But in all these things we overcome, because of him that hath loved us. For I am sure that neither death, nor life, nor angels, nor principalities, nor powers, nor things present, nor things to come, nor might, Nor height, nor depth, nor any other creature, shall be able to separate us from the love of God, which is in Christ Jesus our Lord.

℟. This is he which knew righteousness, and saw great wonders, and made his prayer unto the Most High * And he is numbered among the Saints.
℣. This is he which loved not his life in this world, and is come unto an everlasting kingdom.
℟. And he is numbered among the Saints.
℣. Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, * and to the Holy Ghost.
℟. And he is numbered among the Saints.

Lesson IV
From the Book of Dialogues written by Pope St. Gregory
Lib. 3. Cap. 31
Hermenegild, the son of Leovigild, King of the Visigoths, was turned from the Arian heresy to the Catholic Faith by the preaching of that most worshipful man Leander, Bishop of Seville, the same who was for a long season mine own familiar friend. Then his father, being himself an Arian, strove to bring him back to that heresy, first by offering him gifts, and then seeking to awe him by threatening. And when he answered alway that, having once had knowledge of the true faith, he never could forsake it, his father was wroth, and took away his kingdom from him, and plundered him of all his goods. And when not even so could he sap the manliness of his soul, he cast him into a most strait prison, having his neck and his hands in fetters of iron. And so that young King Hermenegild began to hold in little esteem an earthly kingdom, and to long exceedingly for an heavenly. Yea, he clothed himself in sackcloths in the prison, and as he lay bound therein, he poured forth supplications to Almighty God to give him strength. There he lay bound, having suffered the loss of all things, but his suffering made him but to esteem more worthless the glory of this world, which passeth away so easily.

℟. Eternal light will shine over your saints, O Lord, * And the eternity of the times, alleluia, alleluia.
℣. Everlasting joy shall be upon their heads, they shall obtain joy and gladness
℟. And the eternity of the times, alleluia, alleluia.

Lesson V
But when the day of the glad Passover came, at dead of night, the unbelieving father sent to his son the Arian Bishop, to offer him, as the price of his favour, to receive at the hands of the said Bishop the Communion which was the result of a sacrilegious consecration. But when the Arian Bishop came into the prison, the servant of God, remembering that he was not his own but God's man, rebuked the unbeliever as he deserved, and drave him from his presence with just reproaches for though he was weak and bound as touching this outer body, yet was he strong in the mighty castle of his soul. The Bishop, therefore, went away again to that Arian father. And when he came to Leovigild, he waxed exceeding wroth, and sent his servants to kill God's faithful witness where he lay. Which thing was done for as soon as they came to him into the prison, they clave his head with an axe, and freed him from the dying life of this house of our tabernacle. And so they did to him all that which they that kill the body are able to do, and it was a thing which now of a long season he feared not, seeing that when they have done that, they have no more that they can do, but fearing rather Him Who, when He hath killed, hath power to cast both body and soul into hell. But God, to make manifest the glory of His servant, was pleased to work signs from heaven, for of a sudden the solemn swell of singing of Psalms was heard at that dead hour of night from round about the place where lay the body of the kingly martyr, kingly now in an higher and truer sense than the sense of earthly kingship, since he had witnessed a good confession for the truth, sealing it with his blood.

℟. His servants, alleluia * God will comfort, alleluia, alleluia.
℣. The Lord will judge His people and, His servants,
℟. God will comfort, alleluia, alleluia.

Lesson VI
Come say, too, that lights were seen there that night. Wherefore it came to pass that the body of the martyr became the rightful object of reverence to all God's faithful people. The unbelieving father, murderer of his own child, was seized with remorse, and repented him of what he had done, but he sorrowed not unto salvation. For though he knew that the Catholic faith was true, he stood in fear of his people, and deserved not to attain unto it. He fell sick, and, when he was at the point of death, he made it his duty to recommend King Reccared his surviving son to the care of the Bishop Leander, whom aforetime he had grievously persecuted, that though Reccared was now left in heresy, the Bishop might work in him by his exhortations the same change that he had worked in his brother, which when Leovigild had said, he died. After his death, King Reccared took for his example not his unbelieving father but his martyred brother. He forsook the Arian heresy, and brought the whole nation of the Visigoths to believe in the true faith, so that he allowed no man in his kingdom to be an officer, who dared any longer range himself through heresy as an enemy of the Kingdom of God. Neither need we marvel that Reccared was a preacher of the faith, since he had had to his brother a martyr, for whose sake Almighty God hath helped him to bring back so many to the bosom of their Father Who is in heaven.

℟. Come forth, O ye daughters of Jerusalem, and behold the Martyrs with the crowns wherewith the Lord crowned them; * In the day of His feasting, and of His gladness. Alleluia.
℣. For He hath strengthened the bars of thy gates He hath blessed thy children within thee.
℟. In the day of His feasting, and of His gladness. Alleluia.
℣. Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, * and to the Holy Ghost.
℟. In the day of His feasting, and of His gladness. Alleluia.

Lesson VII
From the Holy Gospel according to Luke
Luke 14:26-33
At that time, Jesus said unto the multitudes: If any man come to Me, and hate not his father, and mother, and wife, and children, and brethren, and sisters, yea, and his own life also, he cannot be My disciple. And so on.

Homily by Pope St Gregory the Great
Homilia 37th on the Gospels.
Dearly beloved brethren, if we consider what and how great things are promised unto us in heaven, all things which are upon earth grow poor to our mind. For when this world's goods are reckoned against the gladness above, they are found to be a clog rather than an help. This present life being compared to life eternal, ought rather to be called death than life. For what is the daily failing of our corruption but, as it were, a creeping death But what tongue is there that can tell, or what understanding that can comprehend how great is the rejoicing in the city above, where they have part with the choirs of Angels, where they stand with the most blessed spirits before the glory of the Creator, where they see the face of God present, where they behold the Incomprehensible Light, where they have no fear of death, and where they rejoice eternally incorruptible

℟. I am the vine: you the branches. * He that abideth in me, and I in him, the same beareth much fruit, alleluia, alleluia.
℣. As the Father hath loved me, I also have loved you.
℟. He that abideth in me, and I in him, the same beareth much fruit, alleluia, alleluia.

Lesson VIII
Then we hear these things our hearts burn within us and we long to be already there, where we hope to rejoice for ever. But we cannot attain unto great rewards, save through great labour. Therefore saith the excellent preacher Paul: “He is not crowned, except he strive lawfully.” (2 Tim. ii. 5.) The greatness of the reward doth delight our mind let not the throes of the struggle dishearten us. Therefore the Truth saith unto every one that cometh unto Him “If any man come to Me, and hate not his father and mother, and wife, and children, and brethren, and sisters, yea, and his own life also, he cannot be My disciple.”

℟. Her Nazarites are become pure, Alleluia: they reflect the glory of God, Alleluia. * They are whiter than milk. Alleluia, Alleluia.
℣. They are purer than snow, they are whiter than milk, they are more ruddy in body than coral, their polishing is of sapphire.
℟. They are whiter than milk. Alleluia, Alleluia.
℣. Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, * and to the Holy Ghost.
℟. They are whiter than milk. Alleluia, Alleluia.

Lesson IX
Or it may be asked how we are commanded in one place to hate our parents, and them that are near us in the flesh, and in another place to love even our enemies. And, verily, the Truth hath said, as touching a wife “What God hath joined together, let not man put asunder.” (Matth. xix. 6.) And Paul saith “ Husbands, love your wives, even as Christ also loved the Church.” (Eph. v. 25.) Behold, the disciple commandeth a man to love his wife, and the Master saith “If any man hate not his wife, he cannot be My disciple.” Doth the judge, then, order one proclamation, and the crier make another? or can the man both love and hate? If we consider well the force of the commandment, we shall be able in wisdom to do both. Let us love wife, and kindred, and neighbour, as touching their nearness in the flesh but as touching the way of God, if they withstand us therein, let us not know them, but hate them and flee from them.

[Te Deum follows]

Lesson IX (when commemorated)
Commemoration of: St. Hermenegild, Martyr
Book 3, chap. 31
From the Book of Dialogues written by Pope St. Gregory
King Hermenegild, son of Leovigild, King of the Visigoths, was converted from the Arian heresy to the Catholic faith by the preaching of that most worthy man, Leander, Bishop of Seville, and one of my greatest friends. Hermenegild's father was an Arian, and tried first to persuade him by promises and then to terrify him by threats to return to that heresy. But when Hermenegild continued to answer that he could never abandon the true faith now that he had come to know it, his angry father deprived him of his kingdom, took away all his possessions, and shut him up under strict guard, with his neck and hands chained. And so the young King Hermenegild began to despise the kingdom of earth and eagerly to seek the kingdom of heaven. Lying bound and in sackcloth, he poured forth prayers to Almighty God to give him strength. When Easter came, his treacherous father sent an Arian bishop to him in the middle of the night, to have Hermenegild receive sacrilegiously consecrated Communion from this bishop's hands and so be restored to his father's favour. But, as a man devoted to God, he gave the Arian bishop the rebuke he deserved and refused his treacherous offer with fitting indignation. When the bishop returned, Hermenegild's Arian father was enraged and at once sent his servants, who killed this staunch Confessor of God where he lay imprisoned.
