Sts. Cletus and Marcellinus, Popes and Martyrs
Semiduplex
[Sancti/04-26]

Lessons I–III: from the Scripture of the day.
Lessons VII–IX: from the Commune plurium Summorum Pontificum Martyrum Tempore Paschali (C3bp).

Lesson IV
Cletus was a Roman, the son of Emilian, of the Fifth Region of the city, and the street called Noble. He ruled the Church in the time of the Emperors Vespasian and Titus. In accordance with the precept of the Prince of the Apostles He ordained twenty-five Priests for the city. He was the first Pope who made use in his letters of the phrase “Health and Apostolic Benediction.” When he had ruled the Church for twelve years, seven months, and two days, and brought it into an excellent state of order, in the reign of the Emperor Domitian, and the second persecution since the time of Nero, he was crowned with martyrdom, and buried on the Vatican mount, hard by the body of blessed Peter.

℟. Eternal light will shine over your saints, O Lord, * And the eternity of the times, alleluia, alleluia.
℣. Everlasting joy shall be upon their heads, they shall obtain joy and gladness
℟. And the eternity of the times, alleluia, alleluia.

Lesson V
Marcellinus was a Roman; he ruled the Church from the year 296 to the year 304, during the savage persecution which was ordered by the Emperor Diocletian. He suffered through the false severity of those who blamed him as being too indulgent toward them who had fallen into idolatry, and for this reason also hath been slandered to the effect that he himself burnt incense to idols but this blessed Pope, on account of his confession of the faith, was put to death along with three other Christians, whose names are Claudius, Cyrinus, and Antoninus. At the command of the Emperor their bodies were cast out unburied, and lay so for thirty-six days. At the end of that time St. Peter appeared in a dream to Blessed Marcellus, and in obedience to his command the said Marcellus went with certain Priests and Deacons, singing hymns, and carrying lights, and buried these four bodies honourably in the Cemetery of Priscilla upon the Salarian Way. Marcellinus ruled the Church for seven years, eleven months, and twenty-three days. During this time he held two Advent ordinations, and ordained at them four Priests, and five Bishops for diverse Sees.

℟. His servants, alleluia * God will comfort, alleluia, alleluia.
℣. The Lord will judge His people and, His servants,
℟. God will comfort, alleluia, alleluia.

Lesson VI
From the Sermons of St. Ambrose, Bishop of Milan
xxii.
Dearly beloved brethren, it is very meet and right that after the gladness of Easter, which we have celebrated in the Church, we should mingle our own joy with the joy of the holy Martyrs; yea, that we should tell of the glory of the Lord's rising again, to them that have been made partakers of the Lord's sufferings. It truly must needs be that they which have been partakers of His sufferings, should be also of His joy. For thus saith the blessed Apostle: “As ye are partakers of the sufferings, so shall ye be also of the consolation.” (2 Cor. i. 7.) And again: “If we suffer, we shall also reign with Him.” (2 Tim. ii. 12.) He, therefore, that endureth sorrow for Christ, must needs also have glory with Christ.

℟. Come forth, O ye daughters of Jerusalem, and behold the Martyrs with the crowns wherewith the Lord crowned them; * In the day of His feasting, and of His gladness. Alleluia.
℣. For He hath strengthened the bars of thy gates He hath blessed thy children within thee.
℟. In the day of His feasting, and of His gladness. Alleluia.
℣. Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, * and to the Holy Ghost.
℟. In the day of His feasting, and of His gladness. Alleluia.

Lesson IX (when commemorated)
Commemoration of: Sts. Cletus and Marcellinus, Popes and Martyrs
Cletus was a Roman, and ruled the Church in the time of the Emperors Vespasian and Titus. In accordance with the precept of the Prince of the Apostles he ordained twenty-five priests for the City. He was the first Pope who made use in his letters of the phrase, Health and Apostolic Benediction. Having brought the Church into an excellent state of order, he was crowned with martyrdom in the reign of the Emperor Domitian, and the second persecution since the time of Nero, and was buried on the Vatican mount, hard by the body of blessed Peter. Marcellinus was a Roman; he ruled the Church during the savage persecution which was ordered by the Emperor Diocletian. He suffered through the false severity of those who blamed him as being too indulgent toward them who had fallen into idolatry, and for this reason also hath been slandered to the effect that he himself burnt incense to idols; but this blessed Pope, on account of his confession of the faith, was put to death along with three other Christians, whose names are Claudius, Cyrinus and Antoninus.

[Te Deum follows]
