St. Mark the Evangelist
Duplex II classis
[Sancti/04-25]

Lessons I–III: from the Common of Evangelists in Paschaltide (C1ap).
Lessons VII–IX: from the Common of Evangelists in Paschaltide (C1ap).

Lesson IV
From the Book upon Church Writers, composed by St. Jerome, Priest at Bethlehem.
On Illustrious Men, chapter 8
Mark was the disciple and interpreter of Peter, and it was from what he had heard Peter tell, that, at the request of the brethren at Rome, he wrote the shortest of the Gospels. When Peter had heard it, he approved it, and gave it to the Church to be read, by his authority. Mark betook himself to Egypt, with the Gospel which he had compiled, and was the first man who preached Christ at Alexandria. There he founded a Church with such teaching and austerity of life, that all who followed Christ were constrained to imitate him.

℟. Eternal light will shine over your saints, O Lord, * And the eternity of the times, alleluia, alleluia.
℣. Everlasting joy shall be upon their heads, they shall obtain joy and gladness
℟. And the eternity of the times, alleluia, alleluia.

Lesson V
Last of all, Philo, that most learned Jew, observing that the first Church of Alexandria still kept the law of Moses, wrote a book concerning their manners, as if in praise of his own nation, wherein he saith that under the teaching of Mark, the Christians of Alexandria had all things in common, just as Luke telleth us was the case with all them that believed at Jerusalem. Mark died in the eighth year of Nero, and was buried at Alexandria. Anianus succeeded him.

℟. With great power did the Apostles * Give testimony of the resurrection of Jesus Christ our Lord, alleluia, alleluia.
℣. And they were all filled with the Holy Ghost: and they spoke the word of God with confidence.
℟. Give testimony of the resurrection of Jesus Christ our Lord, alleluia, alleluia.

Lesson VI
From the Exposition of the Book of the Prophet Ezekiel by Pope St. Gregory (the Great.)
Hom. 3, Bk. I
The Prophet writeth very minutely touching the four holy living creatures, whom he saw in the spirit as being to come. He saith: “Every one had four faces, and every one had four wings.” What signifieth the face save likeness whereby we are known? or wings, save the power to fly since it is by the face that man is known from man, and by their wings that the birds' bodies are carried up into the air. So the face pertaineth to certitude, and the wings to contemplation. With certitude we are known of God Almighty, Who saith: “I am the Good Shepherd, and know My sheep, and am known of Mine.” (John x. 14.) And again: “I know whom I have chosen.” (xiii. 18.) And by contemplation, whereby we rise above ourselves, we as it were fly heavenwards.

℟. These are the young lambs, who were promised, they are just coming to the fountains. * They are filled with glory, alleluia, alleluia.
℣. In sight of the Lamb, clothed with white robes, and palms in their hands.
℟. They are filled with glory, alleluia, alleluia.
℣. Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, * and to the Holy Ghost.
℟. They are filled with glory, alleluia, alleluia.
