St. Anselm, Bishop, Confessor and Doctor of the Church
Duplex
[Sancti/04-21]

Lessons I–III: from the Scripture of the day.

Lesson IV
Anselm was born of noble and Catholic parents, named Gundulph and Hermenberga, at Aosta, in Piedmont, (about the year of our Lord 1033.) From his tenderest years his diligence in study, and his aspirations to a more perfect state of life, gave no indistinct foreshadowing of the holiness and learning to which he afterwards attained. The heat of youth drew him for a while into the snares of the world, but he soon returned to his first courses, and, forsaking his country and his goods, betook himself (in 1060.) to the monastery of Bee, under the rule of St. Benedict. There he made his profession as a monk, and under the rigid discipline of Herluin, the Abbot, and the learned instruction of the profound Lanfranc, with great zeal of spirit and eager obedience to the Rule, he made such progress in learning and godliness, that he shone before all others as an example of holiness of life, and power of doctrine.

℟. I have found David My servant, with My holy oil have I anointed him * For My hand shall help him, alleluia.
℣. The enemy shall prevail nothing against him, nor the son of wickedness afflict him.
℟. For My hand shall help him, alleluia.

Lesson V
Certification and purity were his marked characteristics, and by constant fasting all taste for food seemed to have died in him. He spent the day in the monastic work, in teaching, and in answering hard questions upon religion, and he took away from sleep during what remained to him of the night, that he might refresh his soul by thoughts of God, wherein he was alway comforted by an unceasing flow of tears. When he was chosen Prior of the monastery, he so won over, by his charity, lowliness, and wisdom, some brethren who looked ill upon him, that from enviers, as he had found them, he turned them into lovers of God and of himself likewise, with exceeding gain to the strictness of observance in that Abbey. After the death of the Abbot, (in 1078,) Anselm, though against his own will, was chosen to succeed him. In this high place the light of his learning and holiness so shone all round about, that he was reverenced not only by Kings and Bishops, but was taken up by the holy Pope Gregory VII., who, amid the great persecutions which were then trying him, wrote with words of great love to Anselm to recommend himself and the Catholic Church to his prayers.

℟. I have laid help upon one that is mighty, and have exalted one chosen out of My people * For My hand shall help him, alleluia.
℣. I have found David My servant, with My holy oil have I anointed him.
℟. For My hand shall help him, alleluia.

Lesson VI
After the death of Lanfranc, Archbishop of Canterbury, (in 1089,) Anselm, whose teacher Lanfranc had formerly been, was driven by William II., King of England, supported by the entreaties of the clergy and people, though sorely against his own wishes to take upon him the government of that Church. Raised to that See ~(upon the 4th day of December, in the year 1093,) he straightway set himself to reform the corrupt manners of the people, and, first by his word and example, and then by his writings and the Councils which he held, succeeded in restoring the ancient godliness and discipline of the Church. But when the aforesaid King William tried by force and threats to seize on the rights of the Church, Anselm withstood him as beseemed a Priest, and after that he had suffered the plundering of all his goods and been sent into banishment, he betook himself to Rome to Urban II. There he was received with great worship, and won high praise for that in the Council of Bari, (in 1098,) he maintained by countless proofs from Scripture and the holy Fathers, against the error of the Greeks, that the Holy Ghost proceedeth from the Son also. When William lived no more, his brother Henry I., King of England, (in the year 1100,) called back Anselm thither, and there he fell asleep in the Lord, (upon the 21 st day of April,1109.) His is a name illustrious not for miracles only, nor for holiness, and indeed he had a wondrous love for his Lord Who had suffered for him, and for the blessed Maiden Mother of the Same our Lord, but also for the deep learning which he used for the defence of the Christian Religion and the good of souls. That wonderful knowledge of theology which he had, and which is shown in all the books which he wrote, seemeth to have been given him from heaven for the teaching of all writers on the same subject, who have used what is called the Scholastic method.

℟. This is he which wrought great wonders before God, and the whole earth is full of his teaching * May he pray for all people, that their sins may be forgiven unto them, alleluia.
℣. This is he which loved not his life in this world, and hath attained unto the kingdom of heaven.
℟. May he pray for all people, that their sins may be forgiven unto them, alleluia.
℣. Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, * and to the Holy Ghost.
℟. May he pray for all people, that their sins may be forgiven unto them, alleluia.

Lesson VII
From the Holy Gospel according to Matthew
Matt 5:13-19
At that time, Jesus said unto His disciples: Ye are the salt of the earth. But if the salt have lost his savour, wherewith shall it be salted. And so on.

Homily by St. Hilary, Bishop of Poitiers.
Comment, on Matth. V
“Ye are the salt of the earth. But if the salt have lost his savour, wherewith shall it be salted It is thenceforth good for nothing, but to be cast out, and to be trodden under foot of men.” There is, I take it, no such thing as salt of the earth. How, then, can the Apostles be called the salt of the earth? But the true meaning of these words will be made plain, when we consider the duty of Apostles, and the nature of salt itself. Now, salt is a compound of the elements of water and fire, out of the which two things in salt there is made one.

℟. The Lord loved him and beautified him He clothed him with a robe of glory * And crowned him at the gates of Paradise, alleluia.
℣. The Lord hath put on him the breast-plate of faith, and hath adorned him.
℟. And crowned him at the gates of Paradise, alleluia.

Lesson VIII
This thing, therefore, thus made to serve in diverse ways the use of men, doth keep from corruption bodies whereon it is sprinkled, and doth readily yield to all the senses the perception of its inborn savour. And thus are the Apostles, seeing that they are the preachers of the kingdom of heaven, and in a certain sense the sowers of the seed of life everlasting, since that Word of God which they scatter hath power to make this mortal put on immortality. Meetly then are they called salt, the savour of whose teaching doth keep sweet the receiver thereof even unto life everlasting.

℟. In the midst of the congregation did the Lord open his mouth. * And filled him with the spirit of wisdom and understanding, alleluia.
℣. He made him rich with joy and gladness.
℟. And filled him with the spirit of wisdom and understanding, alleluia.
℣. Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, * and to the Holy Ghost.
℟. And filled him with the spirit of wisdom and understanding, alleluia.

Lesson IX
But the nature of salt is to be ever the same, and unchanging, and, on the other hand, the nature of man hath this weakness, to be changeable. He only is blessed who hath continued even unto the end in all the works which God hath commanded. Therefore dot! the Lord warn them whom He calleth the salt of the earth, that they are behoven to remain strong in that strength which He hath given unto them, lest, becoming themselves savourless, they should be impotent to season others losing the freshness of their own saltness, be unable to stop the corruption round about them and so the Church cast them out of her buttery, and they and those that they should have salted, be together trodden under foot of such as enter in.

[Te Deum follows]

Lesson IX (when commemorated)
Commemoration of: St. Anselm, Bishop, Confessor and Doctor of the Church
Anselm, born of noble Catholic parents at Aosta on the borders of Italy, as a young man abandoned his homeland and all his possessions and was professed at the Benedictine monastery of Bec, where he advanced in a most wonderful way in the attainment of learning and virtue. He was held in honour by kings and bishops, and was a friend of St. Gregory VII, at the time much troubled by persecutions, who wrote him letters filled with affection, commending himself and the Church to Anselm's prayers. After the death of Lanfranc, Archbishop of Canterbury and Anselm's former teacher, he was called to rule over that Church, and, by word and example, by writings and by holding councils, he restored it to its pristine state of piety and ecclesiastical discipline. But, soon after, when King William tried by force and threats to usurp the rights of the Church and Anselm steadfastly resisted, his possessions were confiscated and he himself exiled. He went to Urban II in Rome, who welcomed him with honour and the highest praise. At the Council of Bari, he defended against the errors of the Greeks the doctrine that the Holy Ghost proceedeth also from the Son, by countless proofs taken from the Scriptures and the holy Fathers. After King William's death, his brother Henry recalled Anselm to England, and there he fell asleep in the Lord.

[Te Deum follows]
