St. John the Apostle Before the Latin Gate
Duplex majus
[Sancti/05-06]

Lesson I
Lesson from the first letter of St. John the Apostle
1 John 1:1-5
That which was from the beginning, which we have heard, which we have seen with our eyes, which we have looked upon, and our hands have handled, of the word of life: For the life was manifested; and we have seen and do bear witness, and declare unto you the life eternal, which was with the Father, and hath appeared to us: That which we have seen and have heard, we declare unto you, that you also may have fellowship with us, and our fellowship may be with the Father, and with his Son Jesus Christ. And these things we write to you, that you may rejoice, and your joy may be full. And this is the declaration which we have heard from him, and declare unto you: That God is light, and in him there is no darkness.

℟. Blessed is the man that feareth the Lord, alleluia. * He shall delight exceedingly in his commandments, alleluia, alleluia, alleluia.
℣. Glory and wealth shall be in his house: and his justice remaineth for ever and ever.
℟. He shall delight exceedingly in his commandments, alleluia, alleluia, alleluia.

Lesson II
1 John 1:6-10
If we say that we have fellowship with him, and walk in darkness, we lie, and do not the truth. But if we walk in the light, as he also is in the light, we have fellowship one with another, and the blood of Jesus Christ his Son cleanseth us from all sin. If we say that we have no sin, we deceive ourselves, and the truth is not in us. If we confess our sins, he is faithful and just, to forgive us our sins, and to cleanse us from all iniquity. If we say that we have not sinned, we make him a liar, and his word is not in us.

℟. Your sorrow, alleluia. * Shall be turned into joy, alleluia.
℣. The world shall rejoice: and you shall be made sorrowful, but your sorrow.
℟. Shall be turned into joy, alleluia.

Lesson III
1 John 2:1-5
My little children, these things I write to you, that you may not sin. But if any man sin, we have an advocate with the Father, Jesus Christ the just: And he is the propitiation for our sins: and not for ours only, but also for those of the whole world. And by this we know that we have known him, if we keep his commandments. He who saith that he knoweth him, and keepeth not his commandments, is a liar, and the truth is not in him. But he that keepeth his word, in him in very deed the charity of God is perfected.

℟. Precious in the sight of the Lord, alleluia. * Is the death of his saints, alleluia.
℣. The Lord is nigh unto them that are of a contrite heart: and he will save the humble of spirit.
℟. Is the death of his saints, alleluia.
℣. Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, * and to the Holy Ghost.
℟. Is the death of his saints, alleluia.

Lesson IV
From the Book against Jovinian written by St. Jerome, Priest at Bethlehem.
Bk. 1
The Apostle John was one of the disciples of the Lord. There is a tradition that he was the youngest of the Apostles. He was a virgin when the Faith of Christ found him, and he hath remained a virgin for ever. This is why he was “the disciple whom Jesus loved” more than any of the others, and why he “leaned on Jesus' Breast.” When Peter, who had been married, wished to ask the Lord who it was that was about to betray Him, he dared not ask for himself, but beckoned to John, that he should ask it. (John xiii. 23, 24.) After the Resurrection, when “Mary Magdalene came and told the disciples that the Lord was risen, Peter and John ran both together to the sepulchre, but John did outrun Peter.” (xx. 2-4.) Later on, when the Apostles were on the Sea of Galilee, in a ship, fishing, “Jesus stood on the shore, but the disciples knew not that it was Jesus,” till virgin knew Virgin, and “that disciple whom Jesus loved saith unto Peter It is the Lord.”

℟. Eternal light will shine over your saints, O Lord, * And the eternity of the times, alleluia, alleluia.
℣. Everlasting joy shall be upon their heads, they shall obtain joy and gladness
℟. And the eternity of the times, alleluia, alleluia.

Lesson V
John was both an Apostle, and an Evangelist, and a Prophet. He was an Apostle, in that he wrote to the Churches, as their Teacher. He was an Evangelist, in that he wrote one of the Gospels, the like whereto was not done by any other of the twelve Apostles, save Matthew. He was a Prophet, in that when he was in the isle of Patmos, whither he had been banished by Domitian on account of his uplifting of his testimony for the Lord, he saw there that Apocalypse which containeth such unfathomable mysteries concerning “things which shall be hereafter.” (Apoc. i. 19.) Tertullian also saith that when he was at Rome, he was put into a vessel of boiling oil, but that he came out cleaner and healthier than he went in.

℟. With great power did the Apostles * Give testimony of the resurrection of Jesus Christ our Lord, alleluia, alleluia.
℣. And they were all filled with the Holy Ghost: and they spoke the word of God with confidence.
℟. Give testimony of the resurrection of Jesus Christ our Lord, alleluia, alleluia.

Lesson VI
There is a great difference between his Gospel and the three others. Matthew beginneth to write as of a man “The Book of the Generation of Jesus Christ, the Son of David, the son of Abraham.” Luke's first words of history relate to the priesthood of Zacharias Mark commenceth with the prophecies of Malachi and Isaiah. The first hath the face of a man, with an human genealogy the second hath the face of a calf, being a victim offered by priests the third hath the face of a lion, even “the voice of one crying in the wilderness, Prepare ye the way of the Lord, make His paths straight” but the John of whom I write is like a flying eagle, (Apoc. iv. 7,) whose kingly flight beareth him up above earth-gathered clouds, an eagle that wingeth his way toward the Father Himself, and which crieth: “In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God, and the Word was God.”

℟. These are the young lambs, who were promised, they are just coming to the fountains. * They are filled with glory, alleluia, alleluia.
℣. In sight of the Lamb, clothed with white robes, and palms in their hands.
℟. They are filled with glory, alleluia, alleluia.
℣. Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, * and to the Holy Ghost.
℟. They are filled with glory, alleluia, alleluia.

Lesson VII
From the Holy Gospel according to Matthew
Matt 20:20-23
AT that time: Came to Jesus the mother of Zebedee's children, with her sons, worshipping Him, and desiring a certain thing of Him. And so on.

Homily by St. Jerome, Priest at Bethlehem.
Comment, on Matt. xx. Bk. 3
Whence had the mother of Zebedee's children gotten her idea of the Lord's kingdom He had but just said “The Son of man shall be betrayed unto the chief priests and unto the scribes, and they shall condemn Him to death, and shall deliver Him to the Gentiles to mock, (and to scourge,) and to crucify Him.” He had told His trembling disciples of the outrages that awaited Him in His Passion and yet that mother came to Him to ask for her sons a share in the glory of His Triumph. I think it was because the Lord, after He had said all the rest, had said also “And the third day He shall rise again.” The woman supposed that after His resurrection His kingdom would immediately be established, and that that would be fulfilled at His first coming which is promised at His second. And so, with womanly haste, she forgetteth the future, and catcheth at the present.

℟. I am the vine: you the branches. * He that abideth in me, and I in him, the same beareth much fruit, alleluia, alleluia.
℣. As the Father hath loved me, I also have loved you.
℟. He that abideth in me, and I in him, the same beareth much fruit, alleluia, alleluia.

Lesson VIII
It was the mother who asked, but the Lord addressed His answer to the disciples, understanding that she had made her prayer in obedience to their wishes. “Are ye able to drink of the cup that I shall drink of?” From God's written Word we gather that by this cup, He meant the Passion, touching the which we read that He said “O My Father, if it be possible, let this cup pass from Me!” Likewise is it written in the hundred-and-fifteenth Psalm “I will take the cup of salvation, and call upon the Name of the Lord,” and what that life-giving cup was, the words which soon follow tell us “Precious in the sight of the Lord is the death of His Saints.”

℟. Her Nazarites are become pure, Alleluia: they reflect the glory of God, Alleluia. * They are whiter than milk. Alleluia, Alleluia.
℣. They are purer than snow, they are whiter than milk, they are more ruddy in body than coral, their polishing is of sapphire.
℟. They are whiter than milk. Alleluia, Alleluia.
℣. Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, * and to the Holy Ghost.
℟. They are whiter than milk. Alleluia, Alleluia.

Lesson IX
The question ariseth, how the two sons of Zebedee, James namely and John, drank of the cup of contention even unto blood against sin, seeing that though we know by the Scriptures that “Herod the king killed James the brother of John with the sword,” yet John ended his earthly life by a natural death. But if we read the Records of the Church, we shall find there told how that John, on account of his testifying to the truth, was cast into a vessel of boiling oil, and although the holy champion came out unhurt and continued his pilgrimage here for a while longer, before he received his crown from Christ's hand, being straightway banished into the isle of Patmos, yet we see that he had the soul of a martyr, and drank the same cup of martyrdom that was drunk by the three children in the burning fiery furnace, albeit the persecutor did not actually shed his blood.

[Te Deum follows]

Lesson IX (when commemorated)
Commemoration of: St. John the Apostle Before the Latin Gate
The Lesson is taken from the Book of St. Jerome the Priest against Jovinian
The Apostle John was one of the first disciples of the Lord, and there is a tradition that he was the youngest of the Apostles. He was a virgin when the Faith of Christ found him, and he hath remained a virgin for ever. This is why he was the disciple whom Jesus loved more than any of the others, and why he leaned on Jesus' breast. When Peter, who had been married, wished to ask the Lord who it was that was about to betray him, he dared not ask for himself, but beckoned to John, that he should ask it. After the resurrection, when Mary Magdalene came and told the disciples that the Lord was risen, Peter and John ran both together to the sepulchre, but John did outrun Peter. Later on, when the Apostles were on the Sea of Galilee, in a ship, fishing, Jesus stood on the shore, but the disciples knew not that it was Jesus, till virgin knew Virgin, and that disciple whom Jesus loved saith unto Peter: It is the Lord. John was both an Apostle and an Evangelist, and also a Prophet. Also Tertullian saith that when he was at Rome, he was put into a vessel of boiling oil, but that he came out cleaner and healthier than he went in.

[Te Deum follows]
