Sts. Philip and James, Apostles
Duplex II classis
[Sancti/05-01]

Lesson I
Lesson from the letter of St. James the Apostle
Jas 1:1-6
James the servant of God, and of our Lord Jesus Christ, to the twelve tribes which are scattered abroad, greeting. My brethren, count it all joy, when you shall fall into diverse temptations; Knowing that the trying of your faith worketh patience. And patience hath a perfect work; that you may be perfect and entire, failing in nothing. But if any of you want wisdom, let him ask of God, who giveth to all men abundantly, and upbraideth not; and it shall be given him. But let him ask in faith, nothing wavering.

℟. Blessed is the man that feareth the Lord, alleluia. * He shall delight exceedingly in his commandments, alleluia, alleluia, alleluia.
℣. Glory and wealth shall be in his house: and his justice remaineth for ever and ever.
℟. He shall delight exceedingly in his commandments, alleluia, alleluia, alleluia.

Lesson II
Jas 1:6-11
For he that wavereth is like a wave of the sea, which is moved and carried about by the wind. Therefore let not that man think that he shall receive any thing of the Lord. A double minded man is inconstant in all his ways. But let the brother of low condition glory in his exaltation: And the rich, in his being low; because as the flower of the grass shall he pass away. For the sun rose with a burning heat, and parched the grass, and the flower thereof fell off, and the beauty of the shape thereof perished: so also shall the rich man fade away in his ways.

℟. Your sorrow, alleluia. * Shall be turned into joy, alleluia.
℣. The world shall rejoice: and you shall be made sorrowful, but your sorrow.
℟. Shall be turned into joy, alleluia.

Lesson III
Jas 1:12-16
Blessed is the man that endureth temptation; for when he hath been proved, he shall receive a crown of life, which God hath promised to them that love him. Let no man, when he is tempted, say that he is tempted by God. For God is not a tempter of evils, and he tempteth no man. But every man is tempted by his own concupiscence, being drawn away and allured. Then when concupiscence hath conceived, it bringeth forth sin. But sin, when it is completed, begetteth death. Do not err, therefore, my dearest brethren.

℟. Precious in the sight of the Lord, alleluia. * Is the death of his saints, alleluia.
℣. The Lord is nigh unto them that are of a contrite heart: and he will save the humble of spirit.
℟. Is the death of his saints, alleluia.
℣. Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, * and to the Holy Ghost.
℟. Is the death of his saints, alleluia.

Lesson IV
Philip was born in the town of Bethsaida, and was one of the first of the twelve Apostles who were called by the Lord Christ. Then Philip findeth Nathanael, and saith unto him: “We have found Him of Whom Moses in the Law, and the Prophets, did write.” And so he brought him to the Lord. How familiarly he was in the company of Christ, is manifest from that which is written: “There were certain Greeks among them that came up to worship at the Feast the same came therefore to Philip, and desired him, saying: Sir, we would see Jesus.” When the Lord was in the wilderness, and was about to feed a great multitude, He said unto Philip: “Whence shall we buy bread, that these may eat?” Philip, after that he had received the Holy Ghost, took Scythia, by lot, as the land wherein he was to preach the Gospel, and brought nearly all that people to believe in Christ. At the last he came to Hierapolis in Phrygia, and there, for Christ’s Name’s sake, he was fastened to a cross and stoned to death. The day was the first of May. The Christians of Hierapolis buried his body at that place, but it was afterwards brought to Rome and laid in the Basilica of the Twelve Apostles, beside that of the blessed Apostle James.

℟. Eternal light will shine over your saints, O Lord, * And the eternity of the times, alleluia, alleluia.
℣. Everlasting joy shall be upon their heads, they shall obtain joy and gladness
℟. And the eternity of the times, alleluia, alleluia.

Lesson V
James, surnamed the Just, the brother of our Lord Jesus Christ, was a Nazarite from the womb. During his whole life he never drank wine or strong drink, never ate meat, never shaved, and never took a bath. He was the only man who was allowed to go into the Holy of Holies. His raiment was always linen. So continually did he kneel in prayer, that the skin of his knees became horny, like a camel’s knees. After Christ was ascended, the Apostles made James Bishop of Jerusalem and even the Prince of the Apostles gave special intelligence to him after that he was delivered from prison by an angel. When in the Council of Jerusalem certain questions were mooted touching the law and circumcision, James, following the opinion of Peter, addressed a discourse to the brethren, wherein he proved the call of the Gentiles, and commanded letters to be sent to such brethren as were absent, that they might take heed not to lay upon the Gentiles the yoke of the Law of Moses. It is of him that the Apostle Paul saith, writing to the Galatians: “Other of the Apostles saw I none, save James the Lord’s brother.”

℟. With great power did the Apostles * Give testimony of the resurrection of Jesus Christ our Lord, alleluia, alleluia.
℣. And they were all filled with the Holy Ghost: and they spoke the word of God with confidence.
℟. Give testimony of the resurrection of Jesus Christ our Lord, alleluia, alleluia.

Lesson VI
So great was James’ holiness of life that men strove one with another to touch the hem of his garment. When he was ninety-six years old, and had most holily governed the Church of Jerusalem for thirty years, ever most constantly preaching Christ the Son of God, he laid down his life for the faith. He was first stoned, and afterward taken up on to a pinnacle of the Temple and cast down from thence. His legs were broken by the fall, and he was well-nigh dead, but he lifted up his hands towards heaven, and prayed to God for the salvation of his murderers, saying: “Lord, forgive them, for they know not what they do.” As he said this, one that stood by smote him grievously upon the head with a fuller’s club, and he resigned his spirit to God. He testified in the seventh year of Nero, and was buried hard by the Temple, in the place where he had fallen. He wrote one of the Seven Epistles which are called Catholic.

℟. These are the young lambs, who were promised, they are just coming to the fountains. * They are filled with glory, alleluia, alleluia.
℣. In sight of the Lamb, clothed with white robes, and palms in their hands.
℟. They are filled with glory, alleluia, alleluia.
℣. Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, * and to the Holy Ghost.
℟. They are filled with glory, alleluia, alleluia.

Lesson VII
From the Holy Gospel according to John
John 14:1-13
At that time, Jesus said unto His disciples: “Let not your heart be troubled. Ye believe in God, believe also in Me. In My Father’s house there are many mansions.” And so on.

Homily by St. Augustine, Bishop of Hippo
67th Tract on John
It behoveth us, my brethren, to have our minds more given toward God, if we would that those words of the Holy Gospel which have just sounded in our ears, should become a living reality for our understandings. The Lord Jesus saith: “Let not your heart be troubled. Ye believe in God, believe also in Me.” Lest, being but men, their heart should be troubled by the fear of death, He strengtheneth them, even by the reminder that He is God. He saith: “Ye believe in God, believe also in Me”, for if ye believe in God, ye must needs believe in Me. And this were not so, if Christ were not God.

℟. I am the vine: you the branches. * He that abideth in me, and I in him, the same beareth much fruit, alleluia, alleluia.
℣. As the Father hath loved me, I also have loved you.
℟. He that abideth in me, and I in him, the same beareth much fruit, alleluia, alleluia.

Lesson VIII
We believe in God, believe also in Him Who is by nature and not by robbery equal with God, for in that He emptied Himself, He did it not by laying aside the form of God, but by taking upon Him the form of a servant. Ye fear death for this form of a servant, but let not your heart be troubled, the form of God will raise it up again. But what signifieth that which followeth: “In My Father’s house there are many mansions.” Was it not that they had fear on their own account, and needed for themselves to hear Him say, “Let not your heart be troubled” Which of them trembled not when they had heard Him say to Peter, the lealest and boldest of them all: “The cock shall not crow this day, before that thou shalt thrice deny that thou knowest Me.”

℟. Her Nazarites are become pure, Alleluia: they reflect the glory of God, Alleluia. * They are whiter than milk. Alleluia, Alleluia.
℣. They are purer than snow, they are whiter than milk, they are more ruddy in body than coral, their polishing is of sapphire.
℟. They are whiter than milk. Alleluia, Alleluia.
℣. Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, * and to the Holy Ghost.
℟. They are whiter than milk. Alleluia, Alleluia.

Lesson IX
Meetly were they troubled, for that they were about to be scattered from Him, but when they heard Him say, “In My Father’s house are many mansions,” they had been comforted even if He had not also said, “I go to prepare a place for you,” for then they believed and knew, that, when all dangers and all trials were for ever over, they should be for ever with the Lord, with Christ and with God. Yea, though one man be stronger than another, though one be wiser than another, though one be holier than another, yet “in My Father’s house are many mansions.” That house is an house wherein none are strangers, but every man shall receive a mansion therein according as his work shall be.

[Te Deum follows]
