St. Ubald, Bishop and Confessor
Semiduplex
[Sancti/05-16]

Lessons I–III: from the Scripture of the day.
Lessons VII–IX: from the Common of a Confessor Bishop (C4).

Lesson IV
Ubald was born of a noble family at Gubbio in Umbria, and well established in godliness and learning from his earliest years. When he was a young man, it was often proposed to him to marry, but he never abandoned his determination to preserve his virginity. After that he was ordained Priest he divided his inheritance among the poor and Churches, and embraced the Institute of Canons Regular of St. Augustine. This Institute he brought to Gubbio, and for some time led therein a most holy life. When the fame of his saintliness had got noised abroad, Pope Honorius II set him, contrary to his own wishes, over the Church of Gubbio, and he was honoured with consecration as Bishop by the hands of the said Pope himself, (in the year of our Lord 1129.)

℟. I have found David My servant, with My holy oil have I anointed him * For My hand shall help him, alleluia.
℣. The enemy shall prevail nothing against him, nor the son of wickedness afflict him.
℟. For My hand shall help him, alleluia.

Lesson V
When Ubald came to live as Bishop in Gubbio, he changed his way of life in no wise from that which he had led before, but his virtues began to be more eminent because his word and example were now more able to benefit his neighbours, to whom the shepherd of their souls was a pattern, not by outward showing only, but from his heart. He ate little, dressed simply, and slept upon a hard and very poor bed. He “always bore in the body the dying of the Lord Jesus,” (2 Cor. iv. 10,) while he daily fed his soul in unceasing and earnest prayer. Hence he acquired such wonderful meekness, that when he was most grievously wronged and insulted he not only took it patiently, but, by a strange impulse of love for them, embraced his persecutors with every proof of affection.

℟. I have laid help upon one that is mighty, and have exalted one chosen out of My people * For My hand shall help him, alleluia.
℣. I have found David My servant, with My holy oil have I anointed him.
℟. For My hand shall help him, alleluia.

Lesson VI
Just the space of two years before Ubald passed away from this present life, he was tried as gold in the furnace, by grievous bodily weakness, and, day after day, amid the sharpest sufferings, he never ceased patiently to give God thanks. He rested in peace on the sacred day of Pentecost, (in the year 1160,) having for many years governed with great praise the Church which had been entrusted to him, and glorious for good works and miracles. Pope Celestine III. numbered him with the Saints. His strength is most chiefly shown in the casting out of evil spirits. His body hath remained without corruption for all these ages, and is reverenced greatly in his native town by Christ's faithful people. To them he hath more than once shown himself good at need.

℟. This is he which wrought great wonders before God, and the whole earth is full of his teaching * May he pray for all people, that their sins may be forgiven unto them, alleluia.
℣. This is he which loved not his life in this world, and hath attained unto the kingdom of heaven.
℟. May he pray for all people, that their sins may be forgiven unto them, alleluia.
℣. Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, * and to the Holy Ghost.
℟. May he pray for all people, that their sins may be forgiven unto them, alleluia.

Lesson IX (when commemorated)
Commemoration of: St. Ubald, Bishop and Confessor
St. Ubald was born of a noble family at Gubbio in Umbria, and was well trained, from his earliest years, in devotion and in letters. As a young man, he was often urged to marry, but he never gave up his determination to preserve his virginity. When he was made a priest, he distributed his patrimony to the poor and to churches. He entered the Institute of the Canons Regular of St. Augustine and brought it to his own country. Against his will, he was put over the Church of Gubbio by Pope Honorius II and given episcopal consecration. Making himself with his whole heart a model for his flock, he changed nothing in his way of life and became illustrious for every kind of virtue. Although he suffered from various infirmities for a long time, he never ceased to give thanks to God. When he had governed the Church entrusted to him for many years in a way deserving of the highest praise, he fell asleep in peace, famous for his works and miracles.

[Te Deum follows]
