St. Norbert, Bishop and Confessor
Duplex
[Sancti/06-06]

Lessons I–III: from the Scripture of the day.
Lessons VII–IX: from the Common of a Confessor Bishop (C4).

Lesson IV
Norbert, born in the year 1080 of parents of the highest rank, thoroughly educated in his youth in worldly knowledge, and a member of the Imperial court, turned his back upon the glory of the world, and chose rather to enlist himself as a soldier of the Church. Being ordained Priest, he laid aside all soft and showy raiment, clad himself in a coat of skins, and made the preaching of the Word of God the one object of his life. He had the right to rich revenues of the Church but these he renounced and to an ample fortune from his father; but this he gave to the poor. He ate only once a day, and that in the evening, and then his meal was of the fare of Lent. His life was one of singular hardness, and he was used even in the depth of winter to go out with bare feet and ragged garments. Hence came that mighty power of his words and deeds, whereby he was enabled to turn countless heretics to the true faith, sinners to repentance, and enemies to peace and brotherly love.

℟. I have found David My servant, with My holy oil have I anointed him * For My hand shall help him.
℣. The enemy shall prevail nothing against him, nor the son of wickedness afflict him.
℟. For My hand shall help him.

Lesson V
Being one while at Laon, the Bishop besought him not to leave his diocese, and he therefore made choice of a wilderness at the place called Prémontré, whither he withdrew himself with thirteen disciples, and thus founded the Order of the Praemonstratensian Canons, whereof he, by the will of God, received the Rule, in a vision, from St. Augustine. When, however, the fame of his holy life became every day more and more noised abroad, and great numbers sought to become his disciples, and the Order had been approved by Honorius II, and other Popes, many more monasteries were built by him, and the Institute wonderfully extended.

℟. I have laid help upon one that is mighty, and have exalted one chosen out of My people * For My hand shall help him.
℣. I have found David My servant, with My holy oil have I anointed him.
℟. For My hand shall help him.

Lesson VI
Being called to Antwerpen, he there gave the death-blow to the shameful heresy of Tanchelm. He was remarkable for the spirit of prophecy and for the gift of miracles. He was created (albeit he would rather not have had it so) Archbishop of Magdeburg, and as such he was a strong upholder of the discipline of the Church, especially contending against the marriage of the clergy. At a Council held at Reims he was a great help to Innocent II, and went with some Other Bishops to Rome, where they stamped out the schism of Peter Leoni. It was at last at Magdeburg that this man of God, full of good works and of the Holy Ghost, fell asleep in the Lord, on the 6th day of June, in the year of salvation 1134.

℟. This is he which wrought great wonders before God, and the whole earth is full of his teaching * May he pray for all people, that their sins may be forgiven unto them
℣. This is he which loved not his life in this world, and hath attained unto the kingdom of heaven.
℟. May he pray for all people, that their sins may be forgiven unto them
℣. Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, * and to the Holy Ghost.
℟. May he pray for all people, that their sins may be forgiven unto them

Lesson IX (when commemorated)
Commemoration of: St. Norbert, Bishop and Confessor
Norbert was born of most noble parents and, as a young man, studied the liberal arts. Then, while serving in the court of the Emperor himself, he spurned the seductions of the world and decided to enroll among the soldiers of the Church. After receiving holy orders he devoted himself entirely to preaching the word of God. He brought back innumerable heretics to the faith, sinners to penance, quarrellers to peace and concord. He retired to a desert place called Prémontré in the diocese of Laon; and there, with thirteen companions, he founded the Praemonstratensian Order, which spread in a marvelous way. Against his will, he was made Archbishop of Magdeburg, and constantly defended ecclesiastical discipline and especially celibacy. At the Council of Reims, he was a strong champion of Innocent II; and going to Rome with other bishops, he put an end to the schism of Pierleone. He fell asleep in the Lord at Magdeburg on the 6th day of June in the year of salvation 1134.

[Te Deum follows]
