St. William, Abbot
Duplex
[Sancti/06-25]

Lessons I–III: from the Scripture of the day.

Lesson IV
This William was born of noble parents at Vercelli in Lombardy. He was but little over fourteen years of age, when, impelled by a strange earnestness for holiness, he undertook a pilgrimage to Compostella, to the far-famed Church of St. James. This journey he made clad in a single garment, wearing an iron girdle wound two-fold round his body, and with bare feet. He accomplished his object under the severest hardships of cold and heat, hunger and thirst, and at the great danger of his life. After his return to Italy, he undertook a new pilgrimage, this time to the Holy Sepulchre of the Lord. But in the way of fulfilling this, there arose diverse and most grievous obstacles, whereby the hand of God drew the lad to the higher and holier life of a monk. He dwelt in the town of Monte Solicolo for two years, which he passed in constant prayer, watching, sleeping upon the ground, and fasting. At the end of this time, the power of God made him the mean to restore a blind man to sight. The fame of this miracle became so noised abroad, that William could no longer remain unknown. His thoughts turned again towards Jerusalem, and he again entered cheerfully on the journey.

℟. The Lord made him honourable, and defended him from his enemies, and kept him safe from those that lay in wait for him; * And gave him perpetual glory.
℣. He went down with him into the pit, and left him not in bonds.
℟. And gave him perpetual glory.

Lesson V
He was again hindered by a vision from God, and remained among the Italians to be more useful, and to bring forth more fruit than he would have done among strangers. With extraordinary speed, he built a monastery upon the summit of Monte Vergiliano, ever since named Monte Vergine, (between Nola and Benevento.) Thither he called around him, as his comrades, devout men, and schooled them into a way of life most closely following the commands and counsels of the Gospel, in great part by a rule taken from the constitutions of Blessed Benedict, and supplemented by his own words, and the example of his own holy life.

℟. The Lord loved him and beautified him; He clothed him with a robe of glory, * And crowned him at the gates of Paradise.
℣. The Lord hath put on him the breast-plate of faith, and hath adorned him.
℟. And crowned him at the gates of Paradise.

Lesson VI
As other monasteries were raised, the holy life of William became more known day by day, and brought men to him from all quarters, drawn by the sweet savour of his godliness, and the fame of his miracles. At his prayers the dumb spake, the deaf heard, the withered were strengthened, and they that suffered under diverse and incurable diseases received health. He turned water into wine, and openly worked many other miracles. Among all these things it must be told that a wretched woman sought him to lure him to impurity, but he raked hot embers out upon the floor and cast himself down upon them, and wallowed among them, and escaped unhurt. When this thing came to the knowledge of Roger I., King of Naples, it roused in him the highest reverence for the man of God. At the last, after foretelling his own death to the King and to others, and full of good works and miracles, he fell asleep in the Lord, in the year of salvation 1142.

℟. This is he which did according unto all that God commanded him; and God said unto him: Enter thou into My rest, * For thee have I seen righteous before Me among all people.
℣. This is he which loved not his life in this world, and is come unto an everlasting kingdom.
℟. For thee have I seen righteous before Me among all people.
℣. Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, * and to the Holy Ghost.
℟. For thee have I seen righteous before Me among all people.

Lesson VII
The Lesson is taken from the Holy Gospel according to Matthew
Matt 19:27-29
At that time: Peter said unto Jesus: Behold, we have forsaken all, and followed Thee: what shall we have therefore? And so on.

Homily by the Venerable Bede, Priest (at Jarrow and Doctor of the Church).
For St Benedict’s Birthday.
In the judgment to come, the elect will be in two classes. One class are they who have forsaken all, and followed the Lord: and these shall judge along with Him. The other class are they who have not equally forsaken all that they had, but who have been careful daily to give alms of their goods to the poor of Christ: these shall be the subjects of judgment, and these are they who shall then hear these words: “Come, ye blessed of My Father, inherit the kingdom prepared for you from the foundation of the world: for I was an hungered, and ye gave Me meat: I was thirsty, and ye gave Me drink.” (Matth. xxv. 34, 35.)

℟. This is he which wrought great wonders before God, and praised the Lord with all his heart. * May he pray for all people, that their sins may be forgiven unto them.
℣. Behold a man without blame, a worshipper of God in truth, keeping himself clean from every evil work, and abiding still in his innocency.
℟. May he pray for all people, that their sins may be forgiven unto them.

Lesson VIII
Of the reprobate also we gather, from the words of the Lord, that there will be two classes. One class are they who, being made partakers in the mystery of Christian faith, have neglected to show their faith by their works: these are they to whom it will be said at the judgment: “Depart from Me, ye cursed, into everlasting fire, prepared for the devil and his angels: for I was an-hungered, and ye gave Me no meat.” The other class are they who either have never received the faith and mysteries of Christ, or who, having received, have apostatised, and abandoned it: and touching these it is said: “But he that believeth not is condemned already, because he hath not believed in the name of the only-begotten Son of God.” (John iii. 18.)

℟. Let your loins be girded about, and your lights burning; * And ye yourselves like unto men that wait for their lord, when he will return from the wedding.
℣. Watch therefore, for ye know not what hour your Lord doth come.
℟. And ye yourselves like unto men that wait for their lord, when he will return from the wedding.
℣. Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, * and to the Holy Ghost.
℟. And ye yourselves like unto men that wait for their lord, when he will return from the wedding.

Lesson IX
And now that we have touched for a moment, with fear and just dread, upon these things, let us rather turn our hearing to the right joyful promises of our Lord and Saviour. Let us look what His so great, beautiful, and fatherly love will give to such as follow Him; not the reward of life everlasting only, but gifts exceeding precious in this life also. “Every one,” saith He, that hath forsaken houses, or brethren, or sisters, or father, or mother, or wife, or children, or lands, for My Name’s sake, shall receive an hundredfold, and shall inherit everlasting life.” For every one that shall forsake earthly affections and goods, to go and be Christ’s disciple, the further he goeth on in Christ’s love, the more shall he find who will rejoice to give him a place in their hearts, and to minister to him of their substance.

[Te Deum follows]

Lesson IX (when commemorated)
Commemoration of: St. William, Abbot
William, born of noble parents at Vercelli, had scarcely finished his fourteenth year when he made a pilgrimage to Compostella in a wonderful spirit of penitence and devotional zeal. Then, having vainly attempted another, pilgrimage, to the tomb of Christ the Lord, he spent two years on a solitary mountain in constant prayer, in vigils and in fasting. Fleeing human renown after he had restored sight to a blind man, he built a monastery on Monte Virgiliáno, which was thereafter called Monte Vergine, in a wild and inaccessible spot. There companions joined him, and he formed them by fixed regulations taken largely from those of St. Benedict, by word, and by the example of a most holy life. Then he built other monasteries, and daily his fame as a holy man grew; so that many came to him from all parts, drawn by the report of his frequent miracles. Finally, having foretold the day of his death, he fell asleep in the Lord, in the year of salvation 1142.

[Te Deum follows]
