St. Elizabeth of Portugal, Queen and Widow
Semiduplex
[Sancti/07-08]

Lessons I–III: from the Scripture of the day.
Lessons VII–IX: from the Common of Widows (C7a).

Lesson IV
Elizabeth, daughter of Peter III., King of Aragon, was born in the year of Christ 1271, and it was an omen of her saintly life; that her father and mother, contrary to the usual custom, caused her to be baptized, not by the name of her mother or grandmother, but by that of her mother's aunt, the holy Lady Elizabeth of Thuringia. As soon as ever she was born, her destiny of being a peacemaker between kings and kingdoms began to appear, for the joy of her birth put an end to the ruinous quarrels of her father and grandfather. As she grew up, her father, delighted with her disposition, was used to foretell that his Elizabeth would in herself excel all the daughters of the kingly house of Aragon, and that the happiness of his own home and kingdom was all owing to this one damsel, whose heavenly life he venerated for her indifference to bodily finery, her abstinence from pleasures, her many fasts, her instancy in prayer to God, and her activity in doing works of charity. This illustrious maiden was sought in marriage by many princes, and at twelve years of age was wedded with Christian rites to Denis, King of Portugal.

℟. Because of truth, and meekness, and righteousness; * And thy right hand shall lead thee wonderfully.
℣. In thy comeliness, and thy beauty, go forward, fare prosperously, and reign.
℟. And thy right hand shall lead thee wonderfully.

Lesson V
As a wife, she gave herself up as much to the education of her children, as to her own improvement, striving in all ways, next to God, to please her husband. For nearly half the year, she was used to live on bread and water, and once, when she was ill, God changed the water into wine, which the physicians had ordered her to drink, but which she was unwilling to take. Once when she kissed a disgusting ulcer in a poor woman, it was immediately healed. One winter-time when she was giving some money to the poor, and was fain her husband should not see her alms, the coins changed into roses. She gave sight to a maiden who had been born blind, and healed many other persons of grievous sicknesses by the Sign of the Cross. The miracles of this kind, which she worked, were many. She not only built, but richly endowed convents, schools, and churches. She had a wonderful skill in making peace between kings, and toiled unweariedly to lighten all suffering, whether public or private.

℟. Thou hast loved righteousness, and hated iniquity; * Therefore God, thy God, hath anointed thee with the oil of gladness.
℣. Because of truth, and meekness, and righteousness.
℟. Therefore God, thy God, hath anointed thee with the oil of gladness.

Lesson VI
King Denis died (on the 6th day of January, 1325,) and Elizabeth, who in her maidenhood had been a pattern to virgins, and in her married life to wives, now, in her loneliness, was an example to widows. Clad in the raiment of the nuns of St. Clare, she faithfully attended at the King's funeral, and soon after went to Compostella, where she offered many precious gifts, of silk, and gold, and silver, and precious stones, for the benefit of his soul. Thence she returned home, and spent in holy and godly uses everything that remained to her that was dear and costly, eager to relieve every kind of suffering. She lived, not for herself, but for God, and to be useful to mankind. She finished the convent for nuns, right worthy of a Queen, which she had founded at Coimbra. She fed the poor, defended widows, protected orphans. A war being lighted up between her son Alphonsus IV, King of Portugal, and her grandson Alphonsus V, King of Castile, she resolved to set out to reconcile them, and went to the famous city of Estremoz, upon the borders of the two kingdoms. On the journey, she caught a violent fever, of which, after a vision of the Virgin Mother of God, she died a saintly death on the 4th day of July, in the year 1336. She became illustrious for miracles after her death, especially for the sweetness of the savour of her body, which hath now remained uncorrupt for well-nigh three hundred years, and she hath always been spoken of as the Holy Queen Elizabeth. At length, in the year of our salvation 1625, which was that of the Jubilee, Urban VIII, all Christendom gathered together and approving, formally enrolled her name among those of the Saints.

℟. Favour is deceitful, and beauty is vain * A woman that feareth God she shall be praised.
℣. Give her of the fruit of her hands, and let her own works praise her in the gates.
℟. A woman that feareth God she shall be praised.
℣. Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, * and to the Holy Ghost.
℟. A woman that feareth God she shall be praised.

Lesson IX (when commemorated)
Commemoration of: St. Elizabeth of Portugal, Queen and Widow
Elizabeth was born of the royal family of Aragon in the year of our Lord 1271. The joy of her birth put an end to the unhappy quarrels between her grandfather and her father, thus making it clear from the outset that she would be a blessed peacemaker between kings and kingdoms. She was remarkable for the way in which she chastised her body, for her constancy in prayer, and for her exercise of the works of charity. When she was married to Denis, King of Portugal, she devoted herself no less to the work of cultivating virtue than to that of educating her children, striving to please her husband, but still more to please God. She not only had monasteries, colleges and churches built, but gave them magnificent endowments. She was wonderful in settling the disputes of kings, unwearied in relieving the private and public calamities of her fellow-men, and famous for her miracles. When King Denis had died, she put on the habit of the Seraphic Order, and whatever she had that was dear and precious to her she offered at the church of Compostella for the soul of the king and used for works of devotion and mercy. Finally, having fallen ill as a result of a journey she made to establish peace between two kings, her son and her grandson, she died a most holy death, after receiving a visit from the Virgin Mother of God. Famous for miracles, she was enrolled among the Saints by Urban VIII.

[Te Deum follows]
