Sixth Day Within the Octave of the Apostles Sts. Peter and Paul
Semiduplex
[Sancti/07-04oct]

Lessons I–III: from the Scripture of the day.

Lesson IV
From the Exposition of the Epistle of St. Paul to the Romans, written by St. John Chrysostom, Patriarch of Constantinople
Serm. xxxii. in the Moral Exhortations
Apostle Paul wisheth unto us the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ, as the mother of all good, and it remaineth for us to show ourselves worthy of the care of such a Protector, that we may not only listen to Paul's voice, while we are here, but when we pass away to the hereafter, may earn a sight of that great soldier of Christ. Yea if we listen to him here, we shall see him there. Not nigh, but from afar off, shall we see him see him standing near the glory of that Kingly throne where the Cherubim glorify God, where the Seraphim are flying, there shall we see Paul along with Peter, a prince and a leader of the army of the saints, and we shall rejoice in his brotherly love.

℟. I saw men standing together, clad in shining raiment, and the Angel of the Lord spoke unto me, saying: * These men are holy, for they are the friends of God.
℣. I saw a strong Angel of God fly into the midst of heaven, saying with a loud voice:
℟. These men are holy, for they are the friends of God.

Lesson V
For if, while he was yet here, he so loved men, that, although he would fain have been dissolved and been with Christ, yet he was willing still to tarry for man's sake, much greater is the tender love which he now showeth. This is why I love Rome, although if I would, there are many other things for which I might praise her her greatness, her antiquity, her beauty, her population, her empire, her wealth, or her victories. But all these I pass by, and I call Rome blessed for this cause, that Paul in his lifetime loved her children so well, was so kindly toward them, taught openly there, and at length laid down his life among them. They have there his holy body, and this alone maketh that city illustrious more than doth aught else. And just as a great and strong body hath two bright eyes, so are the bodies of these two Holy Apostles in the city of Rome.

℟. Blessed are ye when men shall revile you, and persecute you, and shall say all manner of evil against you falsely, for My sake; * Rejoice, and be exceeding glad, for great is your reward in heaven.
℣. When men shall hate you, and when they shall separate you from their company, and shall reproach you, and cast out your name as evil, for the Son of Man's sake.
℟. Rejoice, and be exceeding glad, for great is your reward in heaven.

Lesson VI
Not brighter is the sky when the sun doth make it all light with his beams, than is the city of Rome darting forth these twin rays of light to the uttermost bounds of the earth. There it is that Paul, there it is that Peter, will rise, and be caught up to meet the Lord in the air. (Thess. iv. 16.) Think, and thrill at the thought, of what Rome will see then, when she beholdeth Paul and Peter rising suddenly out of that coffin, to be caught up to meet the Lord. What rose will Rome offer to Christ? What twin crowns are they wherewith that city is adorned withal? What fresh springs hath she in her? Therefore it is that I marvel at that city, not because of the abundance of her gold, not because of her pillars, not because of any other loveliness that she hath, but because of these two pillars of the Church. Would that I could even now embrace the corpse of Paul that I could cling to his grave that I could see the dust of that body, which filled up those things that were behind of the sufferings of Christ (Col. i. 24,) which bore about in it the marks of the Lord Jesus (Gal. vi. 17,) and which went everywhere carrying the seed of the Gospel.

℟. These are they which have conquered, and are become the friends of God, who recked not of the commandments of princes, and earned the everlasting reward. * And now have they crowns on their heads, and palms in their hands.
℣. These are they which came out of great tribulation, and have washed their robes in the blood of the Lamb.
℟. And now have they crowns on their heads, and palms in their hands.
℣. Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, * and to the Holy Ghost.
℟. And now have they crowns on their heads, and palms in their hands.

Lesson VII
The Lesson is taken from the Holy Gospel according to Matthew
Matt 19:27-29
At that time: Peter said unto Jesus: Behold, we have forsaken all, and followed Thee: what shall we have therefore? And so on.

Homily by the Venerable Bede, Priest (at Jarrow and Doctor of the Church).
For St Benedict’s Birthday.
In the judgment to come, the elect will be in two classes. One class are they who have forsaken all, and followed the Lord: and these shall judge along with Him. The other class are they who have not equally forsaken all that they had, but who have been careful daily to give alms of their goods to the poor of Christ: these shall be the subjects of judgment, and these are they who shall then hear these words: “Come, ye blessed of My Father, inherit the kingdom prepared for you from the foundation of the world: for I was an hungered, and ye gave Me meat: I was thirsty, and ye gave Me drink.” (Matth. xxv. 34, 35.)

℟. These are they who while yet they lived in the flesh, planted the Church in their own blood; * They drank of the Lord's cup, and became the friends of God.
℣. Their sound is gone out through all the earth, and their words to the ends of the world.
℟. They drank of the Lord's cup, and became the friends of God.

Lesson VIII
Of the reprobate also we gather, from the words of the Lord, that there will be two classes. One class are they who, being made partakers in the mystery of Christian faith, have neglected to show their faith by their works: these are they to whom it will be said at the judgment: “Depart from Me, ye cursed, into everlasting fire, prepared for the devil and his angels: for I was an-hungered, and ye gave Me no meat.” The other class are they who either have never received the faith and mysteries of Christ, or who, having received, have apostatised, and abandoned it: and touching these it is said: “But he that believeth not is condemned already, because he hath not believed in the name of the only-begotten Son of God.” (John iii. 18.)

℟. These men are saints, whom the Lord hath chosen in love unfeigned, and hath given them glory everlasting. These are they * By the light of whose teaching the Church is glorified, even as the moon is glorified by the light of the sun.
℣. The saints through faith subdued kingdoms, wrought righteousness.
℟. By the light of whose teaching the Church is glorified, even as the moon is glorified by the light of the sun.
℣. Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, * and to the Holy Ghost.
℟. By the light of whose teaching the Church is glorified, even as the moon is glorified by the light of the sun.

Lesson IX
And now that we have touched for a moment, with fear and just dread, upon these things, let us rather turn our hearing to the right joyful promises of our Lord and Saviour. Let us look what His so great, beautiful, and fatherly love will give to such as follow Him; not the reward of life everlasting only, but gifts exceeding precious in this life also. “Every one,” saith He, that hath forsaken houses, or brethren, or sisters, or father, or mother, or wife, or children, or lands, for My Name’s sake, shall receive an hundredfold, and shall inherit everlasting life.” For every one that shall forsake earthly affections and goods, to go and be Christ’s disciple, the further he goeth on in Christ’s love, the more shall he find who will rejoice to give him a place in their hearts, and to minister to him of their substance.

[Te Deum follows]
