Sts. Cyril and Methodius, Bishops and Confessors
Duplex
[Sancti/07-07]

Lessons I–III: from the Scripture of the day.

Lesson IV
From the Encyclical Letter of Pope Leo XIII
The brethren Cyril and Methodius were born in an honourable position at Thessalonica. As they advanced in years they went to Constantinople to study letters in the capital of the Eastern world. Both made quick progress, but most chiefly Cyril, who gained such learning that he was called for excellency the Philosopher. Methodius became a monk, but the Empress Theodora, on the recommendation of the Patriarch Ignatius, deemed Cyril worthy of receiving the task of teaching Christianity to the Khazar who dwelt beyond the Crimea. By the grace of God he so taught them that they laid aside their many superstitions and were joined to Jesus Christ. After properly establishing the new community of Christians Cyril hastened back to Constantinople, where he entered the monastery of Polychron, whither Methodius had already withdrawn himself. Rastilaw, Prince of Moravia, having heard tell of the good deeds beyond the Crimea, sent to Constantinople to the Emperor Michael III to obtain some Gospel labourers. Cyril and Methodius were sent to him, and gladly received in Moravia, and applied themselves with such power and industry to the work of Christianising souls that it was not long before that nation also joyfully submitted to Jesus Christ. To this end Cyril found of great use the knowledge of the Slavonic language, which he had already acquired, and much effect was produced by the translation of holy Scripture which he made into the language of the people. Cyril and Methodius were the inventors of the alphabet in which the language of the Slavs is characteristically expressed, and for this reason they have been not unjustly termed the fathers of Slavonic literature.

℟. I have found David My servant, with My holy oil have I anointed him * For My hand shall help him.
℣. The enemy shall prevail nothing against him, nor the son of wickedness afflict him.
℟. For My hand shall help him.

Lesson V
Then the happy tidings of what they had done reached Rome, the Supreme Pontiff the holy Nicholas I. commanded these excellent brethren to come to Rome. When they started for Rome they brought with them the relics of the supreme Pontiff the holy Clement I which Cyril had discovered at Cherson. On hearing of their approach Adrian II, who had succeeded to the Papacy upon the death of Nicholas, went forth to meet them accompanied by the clergy and people with every sign of honour. Then Cyril and Methodius gave to the Supreme Pontiff in the presence of the clergy an account of the Apostolic office which they had discharged in so holy and toilsome a manner. When it was made blame to them by some enviers that they had used the Slavonic language for the purposes of public worship, they stated their reasons with such clearness and force that the Pontiff and clergy praised and approved them. When they had both taken an oath that they would remain in the faith of blessed Peter and of the Roman Pontiffs, they were consecrated bishops by Adrian, but it was the Will of God that Cyril, old in grace rather than in years, should close his life at Rome. His dead body received a public funeral, and was laid in the tomb which Adrian had built for himself, but it was afterwards brought to St. Clement's and buried hard by the ashes of that martyr. As it was carried through the city with joyful psalm-singing, it seemed as though the procession were rather that of a triumph than that of a funeral, and that the Roman people were offering heavenly honour to some eminent saint. Methodius went back to Moravia, and there became from his whole soul a pattern to his flock, and from day to day more zealous in the service of Catholicism. He confirmed the Pannonians, the Bulgarians, and the Dalmatians in the Christian religion, and laboured much to bring the Corinthians to the worship of the one true God.

℟. I have laid help upon one that is mighty, and have exalted one chosen out of My people * For My hand shall help him.
℣. I have found David My servant, with My holy oil have I anointed him.
℟. For My hand shall help him.

Lesson VI
Methodius was again accused before John VIII, the successor of Adrian, of unsoundness in faith, and transgression of the traditions of the elders he was summoned to Rome, and there easily proved, in the presence of John and of some Bishops and clergy of the city, that he had himself always firmly held the Catholic faith, and had carefully taught it to others, and that as regarded the use of the Slavonic language for public worship, he had acted lawfully from certain reasons, and the permission of Pope Adrian, and in nowise contrary to holy writ. The Pontiff therefore in this matter concurred with Methodius, and confirmed even in writing his archepiscopal authority and his mission among the Slavs. Methodius therefore went back to Moravia and resumed more earnestly than before the task committed to him, for the which also he cheerfully suffered exile. He converted the Prince of the Bohemians and his wife, and spread the Christian name far and wide among that people. He carried the light of the Gospel into Poland, and according to some writers, after establishing the see of Leopolis, went into Muscovy properly so called and established the see of Kieff. At the last he returned into Moravia, and when he felt that he was about to go the way of all flesh he named his own successor, exhorted the clergy and people for the last time to good living, and then calmly departed that life which had been to him a path to heaven. As Rome had honoured Cyril in his death, so did Moravia honour Methodius. The festival of these Saints, which had long been observed among the Slav nations, the Supreme Pontiff Leo XIII. ordered to be kept throughout the Universal Church with a special office and Mass.

℟. This is he which wrought great wonders before God, and the whole earth is full of his teaching * May he pray for all people, that their sins may be forgiven unto them
℣. This is he which loved not his life in this world, and hath attained unto the kingdom of heaven.
℟. May he pray for all people, that their sins may be forgiven unto them
℣. Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, * and to the Holy Ghost.
℟. May he pray for all people, that their sins may be forgiven unto them

Lesson VII
From the Holy Gospel according to Luke
Luke 10:1-9
At that time, the Lord appointed other seventy-two also, and sent them two and two before His face into every city and place, whither He Himself would come. And so on.

Homily by Pope St. Gregory (the Great.)
17th Homily on the Gospels
Dearly beloved brethren, our Lord and Saviour doth sometimes admonish us by words, and sometimes by works. Yea, His very works do themselves teach us for that which He doth silently His example still moveth us to copy. Behold how He sendeth forth His disciples to preach by two and two since there are two commandments to love, that is, a commandment to love God, and a commandment to love our neighbour and where there are not two, the one, being alone, hath not whereon to do the Lord's commandment. And no man can properly be said to love himself: for love tendeth outward toward our neighbour, if it be the love whereto the Gospel doth oblige us.

℟. The Lord loved him and beautified him He clothed him with a robe of glory * And crowned him at the gates of Paradise.
℣. The Lord hath put on him the breast-plate of faith, and hath adorned him.
℟. And crowned him at the gates of Paradise.

Lesson VIII
Behold, the Lord sendeth forth His disciples to preach by two and two and thus doing, He doth silently teach us that whosoever loveth not his neighbour, such a one it behoveth not to take upon him the office of a preacher. Well also is it said that He sent them before His face into every city and place whither He Himself would come. The Lord followeth His preachers first cometh preaching, and then the Lord Himself cometh to the house of our mind, whither the word of exhortation hath come before and so cometh the truth into our mind.

℟. Let your loins be girded about, and your lights burning; * And ye yourselves like unto men that wait for their lord, when he will return from the wedding.
℣. Watch therefore, for ye know not what hour your Lord doth come.
℟. And ye yourselves like unto men that wait for their lord, when he will return from the wedding.
℣. Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, * and to the Holy Ghost.
℟. And ye yourselves like unto men that wait for their lord, when he will return from the wedding.

Lesson IX
Therefore, to preachers saith Isaiah: “Prepare ye the way of the Lord, make straight an highway for our God.” (xl. 3.) And again the Psalmist saith: “Spread a path before him that rideth upon the West.” (lxvii. 4.) The Lord rideth upon the West above that from which in death He veiled His glory, hath He royally exalted that glory that excelleth, even the glory of His rising again. He rideth upon the West, Who, being risen again from the dead, is throned high above the death to which He bowed. Before Him, therefore, That rideth upon the West, we spread a path, when we set forth His glory before the eyes of your mind, to the end that He Himself may come after, and Himself enlighten the same your minds by His presence and His love.

[Te Deum follows]

Lesson IX (when commemorated)
Commemoration of: Sts. Cyril and Methodius, Bishops and Confessors
Cyril and Methodius were brothers, born of a distinguished family in Thessalonica. The Emperor Michael III sent them into Moravia, where in a short time they brought the nation to the faith of Christ. When a favourable report of what they had done was brought to Rome, Pope St. Nicholas I ordered the brothers to come there. At Rome they were consecrated bishops by Adrian, Nicholas's successor. A short time later, however, Cyril died a most holy death in Rome, and Methodius went back to Moravia and increased his efforts on behalf of Catholicism. Moreover, he confirmed the Bohemians, the Pannonians, the Bulgarians and the Dalmatians in the Christian faith, and worked hard to bring the Corinthians to the worship of the one true God. He also brought the light of the Gospel to Poland and, as some writers say, founded the bishopric of Lemberg. Then he went to Muscovy properly so called and established the pontifical see of Kiev. At length he came back to Moravia, exhorted the clergy and people to virtue with his last words, and died peacefully. The feast day of Cyril and Methodius, already celebrated by the Slavic peoples, was extended to the universal Church by Leo XIII.

[Te Deum follows]
