Octave of Sts. Peter and Paul
Duplex majus
[Sancti/07-06]

Lessons I–III: from the Scripture of the day.

Lesson IV
From the Sermons of St. John Chrysostom, Patriarch of Constantinople
In the Metaphrastes
The blessed Apostles, who have toiled so much for us, what thanks shall we give you When I remember thee, O Peter, I am lost in amazement Paul, when I think of thee, my heart overwhelmeth me, and I weep. When I look at your sufferings I know not what to say or what to speak. How many prisons have ye made holy How many fetters have ye made honourable? How many torments have ye endured How many reproaches have ye borne How have ye carried Christ How have ye made the Churches glad by your preaching? Verily, your tongues were blessed instruments it was for the Church's sake that your limbs were bloody. Ye have been made in all things followers of Christ. Your sound is gone out through all the earth, and your words to the ends of the world. (Ps. xviii. 4.)

℟. I saw men standing together, clad in shining raiment, and the Angel of the Lord spoke unto me, saying: * These men are holy, for they are the friends of God.
℣. I saw a strong Angel of God fly into the midst of heaven, saying with a loud voice:
℟. These men are holy, for they are the friends of God.

Lesson V
Rejoice, O Peter, who hast been gladdened by the wood of the Cross of. Christ., It was. a showing forth of thy Teacher that thou didst will to be crucified, not like the Lord Christ, standing upright, but with thine head toward the earth, as one that made a way from earth to heaven. Blessed are the nails which pierced thine holy, limbs. With sure and certain hope didst thou commend thy spirit into the hands of the Lord, thou who hadst been a faithful servant to Him and to His Bride the Church, thou who in thy warm heart hadst loved the Lord more loyally than all the Apostles.

℟. Blessed are ye when men shall revile you, and persecute you, and shall say all manner of evil against you falsely, for My sake; * Rejoice, and be exceeding glad, for great is your reward in heaven.
℣. When men shall hate you, and when they shall separate you from their company, and shall reproach you, and cast out your name as evil, for the Son of Man's sake.
℟. Rejoice, and be exceeding glad, for great is your reward in heaven.

Lesson VI
Rejoice thou also, O blessed Paul, whose head was cut off by the sword, thou whose fearless devotion no words can express. What sword was that which divided thine holy neck, that instrument of the Lord's work, worthy that heaven should wonder at it, and earth worship it What place was that which drank in thy blood, that appeared like drops of milk upon the raiment of him who smote thee, and made the savage and his comrades to become strangely gentle and faithful Would that I could have that sword for a crown, and the nails of Peter set therein as the jewels of the diadem.

℟. These are they which have conquered, and are become the friends of God, who recked not of the commandments of princes, and earned the everlasting reward. * And now have they crowns on their heads, and palms in their hands.
℣. These are they which came out of great tribulation, and have washed their robes in the blood of the Lamb.
℟. And now have they crowns on their heads, and palms in their hands.
℣. Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, * and to the Holy Ghost.
℟. And now have they crowns on their heads, and palms in their hands.

Lesson VII
From the Holy Gospel according to Matthew
Matt 14:22-33
At that time Jesus constrained His disciples to get into a ship, and to go before Him unto the other side, while He sent the multitudes away. And so on.

Homily by St. Jerome, Priest at Bethlehem
Bk. ii, Comm. on Matth. xiv
The Lord commanded His disciples to cross over to the other side, and constrained them to get into a ship. By these expressions we perceive that they were unwilling to leave the Lord, the love of their Teacher making them desire not to lose a moment of His company. And when He had sent the multitudes away, He went up into a mountain apart to pray. Perchance, if Peter, and James, and John, who had seen Him in the glory of the Transfiguration, had been with Him, they would have gone up into the mountain with Him, but the common herd could not follow Him, save when He taught them on the sea shore, or fed them in the wilderness.

℟. These are they who while yet they lived in the flesh, planted the Church in their own blood; * They drank of the Lord's cup, and became the friends of God.
℣. Their sound is gone out through all the earth, and their words to the ends of the world.
℟. They drank of the Lord's cup, and became the friends of God.

Lesson VIII
He went up into a mountain apart to pray, not as He Who, with five loaves and two fishes, had satisfied about five thousand men, besides women and children, but as He, Who when He heard of the death of John, departed into a desert place apart (vv. 12-21.) Not that we make two Persons in the Lord but some of His works He did as God, and some as man. But the ship was now in the midst of the sea, tossed with waves. The Apostles were right to be slow and unwilling to leave the Lord, for, when He was not with them, they were in peril of shipwreck.

℟. These men are saints, whom the Lord hath chosen in love unfeigned, and hath given them glory everlasting. These are they * By the light of whose teaching the Church is glorified, even as the moon is glorified by the light of the sun.
℣. The saints through faith subdued kingdoms, wrought righteousness.
℟. By the light of whose teaching the Church is glorified, even as the moon is glorified by the light of the sun.
℣. Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, * and to the Holy Ghost.
℟. By the light of whose teaching the Church is glorified, even as the moon is glorified by the light of the sun.

Lesson IX
Thilst the Lord abode alone upon the top of the mountain, a contrary wind arose, and the sea raged, and the Apostles were endangered and yet the threatening shipwreck held off until Jesus came. And in the fourth watch of the night, Jesus went unto them, walking on the sea. The watches of soldiers are divided into three. When therefore it is said that the Lord came unto them in the fourth watch, it appeareth that they had been in peril all night, and that it was at the end of the night, as it will again be at the end of the world, that He came to the rescue of His disciples.

[Te Deum follows]
