St. John Gualbert, Abbot
Duplex
[Sancti/07-12]

Lessons I–III: from the Scripture of the day.

Lesson IV
John Gualberto was the son of a noble family at Florence. In accordance with the wishes of his father, he became a soldier. While he was in that profession, his only brother, Hew, was slain by a cousin. On a certain Good Friday, John, armed and accompanied by soldiers, met the murderer, alone and defenceless, in a narrow way, where neither could turn aside. As he was at the point to kill him, the wretch fell on his knees, and stretched out his arms in the form of the Cross, adjuring him, for the sake of that sign, to forgive him and out of reverence for the Cross he had mercy on him and spared his life. After pardoning his enemy, he went into the Church of St. Minias, which was hard by, to pray. And there he saw the image of Jesus crucified, which had that day received the worship of the faithful, bow its head to him. By this miracle John was so moved, that he laid aside soldiering, even against his father's wishes cut off his hair with his own hands, at the Convent of St. Minias, and clad himself in the garb of a monk. In a short while he so shone with all godly and monkish graces, that he became a pattern of excellency to many. When the Abbat of that house died, the monks all chose John to succeed him. But the servant of God desired to obey, more than to command, and, being kept by God for greater things, he betook himself to one Romuald, a dweller in the hermitage at Camaldoli. Through Romuald he received a revelation from heaven, and forthwith founded an Order of his own under the Rule of St. Benedict, in the valley called Vallombrosa.

℟. The Lord made him honourable, and defended him from his enemies, and kept him safe from those that lay in wait for him; * And gave him perpetual glory.
℣. He went down with him into the pit, and left him not in bonds.
℟. And gave him perpetual glory.

Lesson V
Many gathered themselves to him, drawn by the fame of his holy life. Them he took for his comrades, and laboured earnestly among them to cleanse the Church in those parts from the pollution of heresy and simony, and spread abroad the Apostolic Faith. He and his had to fight with almost countless hardships. Certain enemies broke by night into the monastery of San Salvi, to destroy John and his monks, set the church on fire, pulled down the huts, and mortally wounded all the monks but the man of God perfectly healed them all by the sign of the Cross. One of his monks named Peter also passed unhurt through a vast and raging fire. At length John and his disciples got the peace which they longed for. He purged Tuscany of the pollution of simony, and restored the faith throughout all Italy to its first purity.

℟. The Lord loved him and beautified him; He clothed him with a robe of glory, * And crowned him at the gates of Paradise.
℣. The Lord hath put on him the breast-plate of faith, and hath adorned him.
℟. And crowned him at the gates of Paradise.

Lesson VI
He entirely built several monasteries, and furnished them and others with buildings. He restored in them the strict observance of the Rule, and gave them holy laws. He sold the furniture of the Church to feed the poor, and found the very elements subject to him to bend stubborn hearts withal. He used the Cross like a sword to drive out devils. In his old age, worn out by abstinence, watching, fasts, prayers, and punishing of the flesh, his strength utterly gave way, and he often repeated the words of David My soul thirsteth for God, for the mighty God, for the living God when shall I come and appear before God ~(Ps. xli. 2.) When he was at the point of death, he gathered his disciples together and exhorted them to love one another, and, after a little while, ordered the following words to be written down, which he wished should be buried with him I, John, do believe and confess that Faith which the Holy Apostles preached, and which the Holy Fathers have ratified in the four Councils. At length, at Passignano, where he is held in the highest reverence, after a vision of angels which lasted three days, he passed away to be with the Lord, upon the 12th day of July, in the 78th year of his own age, and in that of salvation 1073. He is illustrious for countless miracles, and Celestine III. enrolled his name among those of the Saints.

℟. This is he which did according unto all that God commanded him; and God said unto him: Enter thou into My rest, * For thee have I seen righteous before Me among all people.
℣. This is he which loved not his life in this world, and is come unto an everlasting kingdom.
℟. For thee have I seen righteous before Me among all people.
℣. Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, * and to the Holy Ghost.
℟. For thee have I seen righteous before Me among all people.

Lesson VII
From the Holy Gospel according to Matthew
Matt 5:43-48
At that time, Jesus said unto His disciples: Ye have heard that it hath been said, Thou shalt love thy neighbour and hate thine enemy. And so on.

Homily by St. Jerome, Priest at Bethlehem.
Bk. i., Cowan. on Matth. v. and vi.
But I say unto you Love your enemies, do good to them that hate you. There are many who judge of the commandments of the Lord by their own weakness, and not by the strength of His Saints and so deem Him to have commanded things impossible. These are they who think that not to hate their enemies is all that they are able to do and that to command us to love them, is to command more than man's nature can bear. It behoveth then to know, that this which Christ commandeth is not impossible, albeit perfect. This is what David did in respect of Saul and Absalom the martyr Stephen also prayed for his enemies, even while they were stoning him and Paul could wish that himself were accursed from Christ for his persecutors. (Rom. ix. well as taught, when He said Father, forgive them for they know not what they do. (Luke xxiii. 34.)

℟. This is he which wrought great wonders before God, and praised the Lord with all his heart. * May he pray for all people, that their sins may be forgiven unto them.
℣. Behold a man without blame, a worshipper of God in truth, keeping himself clean from every evil work, and abiding still in his innocency.
℟. May he pray for all people, that their sins may be forgiven unto them.

Lesson VIII
For the leaving undone other good works, some excuse can sometimes be given but no man can give an excuse for being loveless. Such and such an one may say to me, I am not able to fast but can he say, I am not able to love Such and such an one may say, I am not able to remain a virgin, I am not able to sell all that I have and give to the poor but can he say, I am not able to love my enemies

℟. Let your loins be girded about, and your lights burning; * And ye yourselves like unto men that wait for their lord, when he will return from the wedding.
℣. Watch therefore, for ye know not what hour your Lord doth come.
℟. And ye yourselves like unto men that wait for their lord, when he will return from the wedding.
℣. Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, * and to the Holy Ghost.
℟. And ye yourselves like unto men that wait for their lord, when he will return from the wedding.

Lesson IX
This is a work wherein the feet are not wearied with running, nor the ears with hearing, neither do the hands fail from labour, that we should set up thereby an excuse to rid us of the duty. It is not said unto us Go to the East, and search for charity sail to the West, and ye shall find love. It is into our own inner hearts that we are to go, as saith the Prophet Bring it again to mind, O ye transgressors. (Isa. xlvi. 8.) What is asked of us is not to be found afar off.

[Te Deum follows]
