Our Lady of Mount Carmel
Duplex majus
[Sancti/07-16]

Lessons I–III: from the Feasts of the Blessed Virgin Mary (C11).
Lessons VII–IX: from the Feasts of the Blessed Virgin Mary (C11).

Lesson IV
Here is a story to the effect that many men who had kept a tradition of the holy Prophets Elijah and Elisha, were made ready by the preaching of John the Baptist to hail the coming of the Messiah, and that, when the Apostles having been filled with the Spirit upon the holy day of Pentecost, spake with diverse tongues and worked miracles by calling upon the Name of Jesus which is above every other name, these men, seeing and being assured of the truth, straightway embraced the faith of the Gospel, and that on account of their singular love toward the Most Blessed Virgin, whose conversation and friendship they were able to enjoy, they paid her the respect of building her a little Chapel, the first which was ever raised in honour of this same most pure Maiden, and which stood upon that part of Mount Carmel whence the servant of Elijah had in old days espied that manifest type of the Virgin, the little cloud like a man's hand, arising out of the sea. (3 Kings xviii. 44.)

℟. I was exalted like a cedar in Lebanon, and as a cypress-tree upon Mount Zion. Like the best myrrh * I yielded a pleasant odour.
℣. Like cinnamon and sweet balsam.
℟. I yielded a pleasant odour.

Lesson V
Now this new Chapel they repaired oftentimes day by day, and in their sacred ceremonies, prayers, and praises, honoured the Most Blessed Virgin as the particular Guardian of their Congregation. For this reason they came to be everywhere called the Brethren of Blessed Mary, of Mount Carmel, and the Supreme Pontiffs have not only confirmed to them the right to use this name, but have granted particular indulgences to all those who so call either the Order itself, or any particular member thereof. Her name and protection are not the only gifts which the most bountiful Virgin hath given them yea, she hath given them the badge of the Holy Scapular, which she delivered to the Blessed Englishman Simon Stock, even an heavenly garment whereby this Holy Order is marked, and harnessed against all assaults. Moreover, in old times, when this Order was unknown in Europe, and not a few were instant with Honorius III. to put an end to it, the most gracious Virgin Mary appeared by night to the said Honorius, and flatly commanded him to show kindness to the Order and to the men belonging thereto.

℟. Who is this that cometh up like the sun? This, comely as Jerusalem? * The daughters of Zion saw her, and called her blessed: the queens also, and they praised her.
℣. And about her it was as the flower of roses in the spring of the year, and lilies of the valleys.
℟. The daughters of Zion saw her, and called her blessed the queens also, and they praised her.

Lesson VI
Many godly persons believe that it is not in this world only that the most Blessed Virgin hath marked with her favour this Order which pleaseth her so well, but that in the next world, where her power and mercy have a freer scope than here, they who belong to the Guild of the Scapular, who have practised an easy abstinence, have been regular in reciting a few prayers enjoined to them, and have kept chastity according to their state of life, are comforted by her motherly love while they are being cleansed in the fire of Purgatory, and by her help are borne forward towards their home in heaven more quickly than others. The Order loaded with so many and so great gifts, hath instituted a solemn Commemoration of the Most Blessed Virgin, to be made year after year, in perpetual observance, for the glory of the same Virgin.

℟. When the Lord beheld the daughter of Jerusalem adorned with her jewels, He greatly desired her beauty * And when the daughters of Zion saw her, they cried out that she was most blessed, saying thy name is as ointment poured forth.
℣. Upon thy right hand did stand the Queen in a vesture of gold wrought about with diverse colours.
℟. And when the daughters of Zion saw her, they cried out that she was most blessed, saying:
℣. Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, * and to the Holy Ghost.
℟. Thy name is as ointment poured forth.
