St. Bonaventure, Bishop, Confessor and Doctor of the Church
Duplex
[Sancti/07-14]

Lessons I–III: from the Scripture of the day.

Lesson IV
Bonaventure was born at Bagnarea in Tuscany, in the year of our Lord 1221. In his infancy he was dangerously ill, and his mother made a vow that, if he recovered, she would dedicate him to the Order of Blessed Francis. While he was still a young man he entered the Order by his own wish. Under the teaching of Alexander of Hales he advanced so quickly in learning, that in seven years he lectured publicly at Paris on the Books of the Sentences, with great applause. He afterwards explained the same Books by a brilliant Commentary. After six years he was made General Master of his Order at Rome, in which office he did his duty with such wisdom and holiness as caused all men to talk of him and marvel at him.

℟. I have found David My servant, with My holy oil have I anointed him * For My hand shall help him.
℣. The enemy shall prevail nothing against him, nor the son of wickedness afflict him.
℟. For My hand shall help him.

Lesson V
He was the author of many books, in which the depth of his learning and the earnestness of his godliness affect the reader and teach him at the same time. Gregory X., moved by his reputation for wisdom and holiness, created him a Cardinal and Bishop of Albano. Blessed Thomas of Aquino gave him the title of Saint even during his life -time. It fell on this wise. Thomas found him writing the Life of St. Francis, and said, Let us leave one Saint to work for the other. He departed this life at the Council of Lyons, upon the 14th day of July 1274, being of the age of 53 years, and having worked many miracles. Pope Sixtus IV. numbered him among the Saints.

℟. I have laid help upon one that is mighty, and have exalted one chosen out of My people * For My hand shall help him.
℣. I have found David My servant, with My holy oil have I anointed him.
℟. For My hand shall help him.

Lesson VI
[No English translation in the source files; the Latin is given.]
Ad Lugdunénse concílium a beáto Gregório décimo accersítus et cardinális epíscopus Albanénsis creátus, árduis concílii rebus egrégiam navávit óperam; qua et schísmatis dissídia, compósita sunt, et ecclesiástica dógmata vindicáta. Quibus in labóribus, anno ætátis suæ quinquagésimo tértio, salútis vero millésimo ducentésimo septuagésimo quarto, summo ómnium mæróre decéssit, ab univérso concílio, ipso præsénte Románo Pontífice, fúnere honestátus. Eum Xystus quartus, plúrimis maximísque clarum miráculis, in Sanctórum númerum rétulit. Multa scripsit, in quibus summam eruditiónem cum pietátis ardóre conjúngens, lectórem docéndo movet: quare a Xysto quinto Doctóris Seráphici nómine mérito est insignítus.

℟. This is he which wrought great wonders before God, and the whole earth is full of his teaching * May he pray for all people, that their sins may be forgiven unto them
℣. This is he which loved not his life in this world, and hath attained unto the kingdom of heaven.
℟. May he pray for all people, that their sins may be forgiven unto them
℣. Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, * and to the Holy Ghost.
℟. May he pray for all people, that their sins may be forgiven unto them

Lesson VII
From the Holy Gospel according to Matthew
Matt 5:13-19
At that time: Jesus said unto His disciples: Ye are the salt of the earth. But if the salt have lost his savour, wherewith shall it be salted? And so on.

Homily by St John Chrysostom, Patriarch (of Constantinople.)
15/A on Matth.
Consider how that the Lord saith: “Ye are the salt of the earth,” by the which figure He showeth what a necessary of life is the Gospel. By this figure, He hath us to know that they unto whom He spake have an account to render, not of their own life only, but for the whole world. Not unto two cities, saith the Lord, nor unto ten, nor unto twenty, nor unto one people, as I sent the Prophets, send I you. But I send you unto every land and sea, even unto the whole world, lying groaning, as it is, under the burden of diverse sins.

℟. The Lord loved him and beautified him He clothed him with a robe of glory * And crowned him at the gates of Paradise.
℣. The Lord hath put on him the breast-plate of faith, and hath adorned him.
℟. And crowned him at the gates of Paradise.

Lesson VIII
These words, “Ye are the salt of the earth,” show unto us the whole nature of man as savourless and stinking with the strong corruption of sin. And therefore demandeth He of His Apostles such qualities as are most needful and useful to the furthering the salvation of many. He that is gentle and lowly, tender and just, shutteth not up all these good things in his own heart, but openeth these bright fountains that they may gush forth for the use of his neighbour. He whose heart is pure, and who seeketh peace, suffering persecution for the truth's sake, doth still lead a life for the good of the commonwealth.

℟. In the midst of the congregation did the Lord open his mouth. * And filled him with the spirit of wisdom and understanding.
℣. He made him rich with joy and gladness.
℟. And filled him with the spirit of wisdom and understanding.
℣. Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, * and to the Holy Ghost.
℟. And filled him with the spirit of wisdom and understanding.

Lesson IX
Think not, saith the Lord, that the struggle is easy whereunto ye shall be led, neither shall your reckoning be of light matters. Ye are the salt of the earth. Have ye then salted that which is corrupted? Nay, for it is impossible that that which is once corrupted can be made sound again by the rubbing it with salt. This it is not asked of them to do. But their work is to sprinkle with salt, and to keep fresh thereafter, such things as the Lord hath given over into their charge, and which He Himself hath made new, and freed from all taint, before giving them. To make sound after the corruption of sin, is the work of Christ's power alone; to preserve from falling away again, is the duty and the toil commanded to the Apostles.

[Te Deum follows]
