St. Mary Magdalene, Penitent
Duplex
[Sancti/07-22]

Lesson I
De Canticis Canticorum
Song 3:1-4
In my bed by night I sought him whom my soul loveth: I sought him, and found him not. I will rise, and will go about the city: in the streets and the broad ways I will seek him whom my soul loveth: I sought him, and I found him not. The watchmen who keep the city, found me: Have you seen him, whom my soul loveth? When I had a little passed by them, I found him whom my soul loveth: I held him: and I will not let him go, till I bring him into my mother's house, and into the chamber of her that bore me.

℟. Mary Magdalene and the other Mary went very early to the sepulchre. * That Jesus whom ye seek, is not here: for He is risen, as He said: He goeth before you into Galilee; there shall ye see Him.
℣. And very early in the morning, the first day of the week, they came unto the sepulchre, at the rising of the sun; and, entering into the sepulchre, they saw a young man sitting upon the right side, who saith unto them:
℟. That Jesus Whom ye seek is not here: for He is risen, as He said: He goeth before you into Galilee: there shall ye see Him.

Lesson II
Song 8:1-4
Who shall give thee to me for my brother, sucking the breasts of my mother, that I may find thee without, and kiss thee, and now no man may despise me? I will take hold of thee, and bring thee Into my mother's house: there thou shalt teach me, and I will give thee a cup of spiced wine and new wine of my pomegranates. His left hand under my head, and his right hand shall embrace me. I adjure you, O daughters of Jerusalem, that you stir not up, nor awake my love till she please.

℟. Rejoice with me, all ye that love the Lord, for I sought Him and He hath appeared unto me * And while as I was weeping at the Sepulchre, I saw the Lord.
℣. When His disciples were gone away, I tarried still; and the fire of love in my heart yearned after Him.
℟. And while as I was weeping at the Sepulchre, I saw the Lord.

Lesson III
Song 8:5-7
Who is this that cometh up from the desert, flowing with delights, leaning upon her beloved? Under the apple tree I raised thee up: there thy mother was corrupted, there she was defloured that bore thee. Put me as a seal upon thy heart, as a seal upon thy arm, for love is strong as death, jealousy as hard as hell, the lamps thereof are fire and flames. Many waters cannot quench charity, neither can the floods drown it: if a man should give all the substance of his house for love, he shall despise it as nothing.

℟. They have taken away my Lord, and I know not where they have laid Him. The Angels say unto her: Woman, why weepest thou? He is risen, as He said. * He goeth before you into Galilee; there shall ye see Him.
℣. And as she wept, she stooped down and looked into the Sepulchre, and saw two Angels in white, sitting; and they say unto her:
℟. He goeth before you into Galilee; there shall ye see Him.
℣. Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, * and to the Holy Ghost.
℟. He goeth before you into Galilee; there shall ye see Him.

Lesson IV
From the Sermons of Pope St. Gregory (the Great.)
25th on the Gospels.
Mary Magdalen, a woman in the city, which was a sinner, through love of the truth, washed away in her tears the defilement of her sins, and the words of the Truth are fulfilled which He spake: Her sins, which are many, are forgiven; for she loved much. She who had remained chilly in sin, became fiery through love. When even His disciples went away again unto their own home, Mary still stood without at the sepulchre of Christ, weeping. She sought Him Whom her soul loved, but she found Him not. She searched for Him with tears; she yearned with strong desire for Him Who, she believed, had been taken away. And thus it befell her, that being the only one who had remained to seek Him, she was the only one that saw Him. It is the truth that the backbone of a good work is perseverance.

℟. Because of truth, and meekness, and righteousness; * And thy right hand shall lead thee wonderfully.
℣. In thy comeliness, and thy beauty, go forward, fare prosperously, and reign.
℟. And thy right hand shall lead thee wonderfully.

Lesson V
At first when she sought Him, she found Him not; she went on searching, and so it came to pass that she found Him; and this was so, to the end that her longing might grow in earnestness, and so in its earnestness might find what it sought. Hence is it that the Bride in the Song of Songs saith as representing the Church: By night on my bed I sought him whom my soul loveth. We seek on our bed for Him Whom our soul loveth, when, having got some little rest in this world, we still sigh for the Presence of our Redeemer but it is by night that we so seek Him, for though our mind may be on the alert for Him, yet still He is hidden from our eyes by the darkness that now is.

℟. Thou hast loved righteousness, and hated iniquity; * Therefore God, thy God, hath anointed thee with the oil of gladness.
℣. Because of truth, and meekness, and righteousness.
℟. Therefore God, thy God, hath anointed thee with the oil of gladness.

Lesson VI
But if we find not Him Whom our soul loveth, it remaineth that we should rise and go about the city, that is, by thought and questioning, go through the holy Church of the elect seek Him in the streets, and in the broad ways, that is, walk anxiously looking about us both in the narrow and the broad places, that if we can, we may find His footsteps there for there are some even of those who live for the world, from whom something may be learnt to be imitated by a godly man. As we thus go wakefully about, the watchmen, that keep the city, find us; the holy Fathers, who are the watchmen of the bulwarks of the Church, come to meet our good endeavours, and to teach us either by their words or by their writings. And it needeth but a little to pass from them, but we find Him Whom our soul loveth (a little we must pass,) for albeit our Redeemer in lowliness became a man among men, yet by right of His Divine Nature He is still above men.

℟. Favour is deceitful, and beauty is vain * A woman that feareth God she shall be praised.
℣. Give her of the fruit of her hands, and let her own works praise her in the gates.
℟. A woman that feareth God she shall be praised.
℣. Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, * and to the Holy Ghost.
℟. A woman that feareth God she shall be praised.

Lesson VII
From the Holy Gospel according to Luke
Luke 7:36-50
At that time One of the Pharisees desired Jesus that He would eat with him. And He went into the Pharisee's house, and sat down to meat. And so on.

Homily by St. Augustine, Bishop (of Hippo.)
Bk. 1. Hom. 23, tom. x.
Ye have listened carefully to the Gospel while it was being read, so that the thing told hath, as it were, passed before the eyes of your heart. Ye have seen in your mind's eye, albeit not with bodily sight, the Lord Jesus Christ sitting down to meat in the Pharisee's house, and not refusing when He is bidden of him. Ye have seen also an infamous woman of the city, one of utterly bad character, a sinner, thrusting herself in an uninvited guest, to the banquet where her Healer was sitting, and seeking health at His hands with godly shamelessness; thrusting herself in eager for mercy, as though eager for the feast. She knew under what a disease she laboured, and she knew that He unto Whom she came was mighty to cure it.

℟. She openeth her mouth with wisdom, and in her tongue is the law of kindness. She looketh well to the ways of her household * And eateth not the bread of idleness.
℣. She tasteth and perceiveth that her merchandise is good. Her candle goeth not out by night.
℟. And she eateth not the bread of idleness.

Lesson VIII
She drew near therefore, not unto the Lord's Head, but unto His Feet. She that had so long walked the paths of sin betook her unto the Feet that went about doing good. She first poured forth heart-felt tears, and washed the Lord's Feet with the humble service of her acknowledgment, wiped them with her hair, kissed them, and anointed them. Her silence cried aloud, next in words but in manifested love. The Pharisee, who had desired the Lord Jesus Christ that He would eat with him, belonged to that class of proud men concerning whom the Prophet Isaiah saith people which say, Stand by thyself, come not near to me; for I am holier than thou. (lxv. 5.) When therefore he saw how this woman touched the Lord's Feet with her tears, her kisses, her hair, and her ointment, he spake within himself, saying This Man, if He were a Prophet, would have known who and what manner of woman this is, that toucheth Him; for she is a sinner.

℟. The kingdom of this world and all the beauty of life I have esteemed as nothing, for the excellency of the love of Jesus Christ my Lord * Whom, having seen, I loved Whom, having believed, I longed after.
℣. My heart is overflowing with a good matter I speak of my works unto the King.
℟. Whom, having seen, I loved Whom, having believed, I longed after.
℣. Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, * and to the Holy Ghost.
℟. Whom, having seen, I loved Whom, having believed, I longed after.

Lesson IX
Pharisee, that biddest and scornest the Lord! Thou invitest the Lord to meat, and thou knowest not Him That should have given thee to eat! Whence knowest thou that the Lord knoweth not who and what manner of woman this is, save from this, that she is allowed to draw near unto Him, and that He suffereth her to kiss His Feet, to wipe them, and to anoint them? Ought not an unclean woman to have been permitted to do these things to clean feet? If such a woman had drawn near to the feet of this Pharisee, he would have said to her what Isaiah putteth into the mouth of such Stand by thyself, come not near to me, for I am holier than thou. But she came unto the Lord unclean that she might go away cleansed, sick, that she might go away healed, with confession, that she might go away with thanksgiving.

[Te Deum follows]
