St. Dominic the Confessor
Duplex majus
[Sancti/08-04]

Lessons I–III: from the Scripture of the day.
Lessons VII–IX: from the Common of a Confessor not a Bishop (C5).

Lesson IV
Dominic was a Spaniard, a son of the noble family of Guzman. He was born at Calaruega, (in Old Castile,) in the year of our Lord 1170, and was sent to be taught worldly and sacred learning at Palencia. He attained great success in his studies, and became, first, a Regular Canon of the Cathedral Church of Osma, and afterwards Founder of the Order of Friars Preachers. While his mother was great with child, she dreamt that what was in her womb was a little whelp dog with a lighted torch in his mouth, and that when she was delivered of him, he set all the world on fire. By this dream was figured that burning and shining light of holiness of life and power of doctrine, whereby he should enkindle godliness throughout whole nations. The end proved the truth of the image, for this is in good sooth what his work was, a work which he hath continued to do through the Brethren of his Order.

℟. The Lord made him honourable, and defended him from his enemies, and kept him safe from those that lay in wait for him; * And gave him perpetual glory.
℣. He went down with him into the pit, and left him not in bonds.
℟. And gave him perpetual glory.

Lesson V
But his wisdom and bravery were most chiefly shown in confounding the ~(Albigensian) heretics, who were fain, with their pestilential falsehoods, to corrupt the people of the county of Toulouse. In this business he spent seven years. Afterwards he came to Rome to the Fourth Lateran Council, along with the Bishop of Toulouse, that the Order which he had founded might be confirmed by Innocent III. While the matter was under consideration, Dominick, by the advice of the Pope, went home, that he might put his Rule into shape. He returned again to Rome (in 1216,) and obtained from Honorius III., the immediate successor of Innocent, the confirmation of the Order of Preachers. At Rome Dominic founded two Convents, one for men, and one for women. He raised three dead men to life, and worked many other miracles, where through the Order of Preachers became exceedingly spread abroad.

℟. The Lord loved him and beautified him; He clothed him with a robe of glory, * And crowned him at the gates of Paradise.
℣. The Lord hath put on him the breast-plate of faith, and hath adorned him.
℟. And crowned him at the gates of Paradise.

Lesson VI
By his work convents were already during his life-time established in all countries, and almost countless persons embraced the life of prayer and godliness. In the year of Christ 1221 he fell sick of a fever at Bologna. When he understood that he was about to die, he called together his brethren and disciples, and exhorted them to innocence and uprightness. Lastly, he left to them as his legacy, love, lowliness, and poverty, and as the brethren were all praying, and the words were being said, “Come ye to help him, ye Saints of God run ye to meet him, ye Angels”, he fell asleep in the Lord. It was the 6th day of August. Pope Gregory IX. afterwards placed his name among those of the Saints.

℟. This is he which did according unto all that God commanded him; and God said unto him: Enter thou into My rest, * For thee have I seen righteous before Me among all people.
℣. This is he which loved not his life in this world, and is come unto an everlasting kingdom.
℟. For thee have I seen righteous before Me among all people.
℣. Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, * and to the Holy Ghost.
℟. For thee have I seen righteous before Me among all people.
