Sts. Cyriacus, Largus and Smaragdus, Martyrs
Semiduplex
[Sancti/08-08]

Lessons I–III: from the Scripture of the day.

Lesson IV
Cyriacus the Deacon was long kept in prison with Sisinius, Largus, and Smaragdus, and wrought many wonderful works. Among other things he by his prayers freed from a devil Arthemia, a daughter of Diocletian, and, being sent to Sapor, King of the Persians, also delivered his daughter Jobia from a foul spirit. He baptized the king, her father, and four hundred and thirty others, and afterwards returned to Rome. He was arrested by command of the Emperor Maximian, and dragged in chains before his chariot. Then after four days he was brought forth from prison, had boiling pitch poured upon him, was stretched on a block, ~(and belaboured with a cudgel,) and at last was slain with the axe, along with Largus, Smaragdus, and twenty others, at the gardens of Sallust, on the Salarian Way. On this Way were their bodies buried by John the Priest, on the 16th day of March, (in the year of our Lord 303,) but afterwards, on the 8th of August, Pope Marcellus and the noble lady Lucina took them and wrapped them in linen, and embalmed them with costly ointments, and carried them to the farm belonging to the said lady Lucina, at the seventh milestone from Rome on the road to Ostia.

℟. thy Saints, O Lord, have passed a wonderful way, serving thy commandments, that they might be found without hurt in the midst of the mighty waters. * Dry land appeared, and, out of the Red Sea, a way without impediment.
℣. He smote the rock, and the waters gushed out, and the streams overflowed.
℟. Dry land appeared, and, out of the Red Sea, a way without impediment.

Lesson V
From the Sermon of S. John Chrysostom
Serm. 1. de Mart, tom. 3
Every man knoweth how, by the good Providence of God, the diverse glories of His Martyrs are held in such esteem by His people, that the same His Saints in all places receive worthy honour, and before us is set, by the favour of Christ, the noble example of their courage: thus are we stirred up to consider, on the occasion of these Holidays, how great glory doth abide them in heaven, whose birthdays are thus kept upon earth: thereby, also, we are roused to strive to be like them, brave, godly, and true: so that, in the strength of Christ, we, like them, may wrestle with, and conquer our enemy, and, when we have gained the same victory that they gained, may with them at last be glorified in the kingdom of heaven.

℟. The Saints of God shrank not from the stripes of the executioners, but died for Christ's Name's sake * That they might be made joint-heirs in the house of the Lord.
℣. They gave their bodies for God's sake to death.
℟. That they might be made joint-heirs in the house of the Lord.

Lesson VI
For what man is there willing to share their reward, that if he do not first lay hold on their steadfastness, follow after the example of their faith, and imitate their brave patience, can either seek or find their glory by likeness to their lives? But whosoever doth so follow them, let him not doubt but that, though in very deed he gain not the crown of martyrdom, he is yet able by good works to make himself meet therefor. For we have a most merciful God, Which either giveth Martyrdom unto such as be willing, or, without Martyrdom, doth make them joint heirs with the Saints in the kingdom of God.

℟. As gold in the furnace hath the Lord tried His chosen ones, and received them as a burnt-offering, and yet a while, and they shall be regarded; * For the grace of God, and His peace, are with His chosen.
℣. They that put their trust in Him shall understand the truth and such as be faithful in love shall abide with Him.
℟. For the grace of God, and His peace, are with His chosen.
℣. Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, * and to the Holy Ghost.
℟. For the grace of God, and His peace, are with His chosen.

Lesson VII
From the holy Gospel according to Mark
Mark 16:15-18
At that time, Jesus said unto His disciples: Go ye into all the world, and preach the Gospel to every creature. And so on.

Homily by Pope St. Gregory (the Great)
29th on the Gospels
By the words “every creature” we may understand every tribe of the Gentiles. Of aforetime it had been said, Go not into the way of the Gentiles, (Matth. x. 5,) but now, Preach the Gospel to every creature, that, since the Jews had proudly rejected the preaching of the Apostles, that might become our gain which was the seal of their condemnation. But when the Eternal Truth sendeth forth His disciples to preach, what doth He but scatter seed over the field of the world He scattered abroad a few grains for seed, that He may afterward reap an abundant harvest in our faith.

℟. Because of the covenant of the Lord, and the laws of their fathers, the Saints of God abode in brotherly love, * For one spirit and one faith was ever in them.
℣. Behold how good and how pleasant it is for brethren to dwell together in unity.
℟. For one spirit and one faith was ever in them.

Lesson VIII
The great harvest of faithful souls throughout the whole world would never have sprung up, if the hand of the Lord had not first scattered those chosen grains of preachers over the reasonable soil of men's minds. Then is written, He that believeth and is baptized shall be saved but he that believeth not shall be damned. Now, perchance, thou sayest in thine heart I believe, and therefore I shall be saved. True, if to thy faith thou dost add works. He only hath a living faith whose life doth not give the lie to his profession. It is of this that Paul speaketh, where he saith of certain vain believers, They profess that they know God but in works they deny Him. (Tit. i. 16.)

℟. O ye My Saints, who, being in the flesh, didst have striving * I will render unto you a reward of your labours.
℣. Come, ye blessed of My Father, inherit the kingdom
℟. I will render unto you a reward of your labours.
℣. Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, * and to the Holy Ghost.
℟. I will render unto you a reward of your labours.

Lesson IX
And these signs shall follow them that believe In My name they shall cast out devils, they shall speak with new tongues, they shall take up serpents and if they drink any deadly thing, it shall not hurt them they shall lay hands on the sick, and they shall recover. My brethren, these signs do not follow us. Do we, then, not believe Nay. The truth is, these things were needful when the Church was young. That she might grow by the increase of the faithful, she needed to be nourished with miracles. So we, when we plant a young tree, continually water and tend it, till we see that it hath taken firm root in the earth but when once it hath taken firm root, it can grow of itself. Hence Paul saith of tongues: Tongues are for a sign not to them that believe, but to them that believe not. (Cor. xiv. 22.)

[Te Deum follows]
