St. Cajetan, Confessor
Duplex
[Sancti/08-07]

Lessons I–III: from the Scripture of the day.
Lesson IX: of St. Donatus, Bishop and Martyr (08-07o).

Lesson IV
Cajetan was born at Vicenza, (in the year 1480,) of the noble family of the lords of Tiene, and was forthwith dedicated by his mother to the Virgin Mother of God. From his childhood such wonderful innocence shone in him that all called him the Saint. He took the degree of Doctor in Civil and Canon Law at Padua, and afterwards went to Rome, where Julius II. gave him a place among the Prelates. Having taken Priest's Orders, he became so full of the fire of the love of God, that he left the Court, that he might be free to work entirely for God. He founded hospitals at his own expense, and nursed the sick, even such as were suffering from the plague, with his own hands. He laboured with such constant earnestness for the salvation of his neighbours that he got the name of the Hunter of souls.

℟. The Lord made him honourable, and defended him from his enemies, and kept him safe from those that lay in wait for him; * And gave him perpetual glory.
℣. He went down with him into the pit, and left him not in bonds.
℟. And gave him perpetual glory.

Lesson V
From a desire to restore the corrupted discipline of the clergy to the mould of the Apostolic life, he founded, (in 1524,) a Congregation of Clerks Regular, who should give up all care of earthly things, neither keeping any income, nor begging the needful things of life from the faithful, but living only on such alms as might be given them unasked. For this end, and with the approval of Clement VII., Cajetan himself, together with John Peter Carafa, Archbishop of Chieti, (afterwards Pope Paul IV.), and two other men of eminent godliness, took solemn vows at the High Altar of St. Peter's Church on the Vatican. When the city of Rome was sacked by the troops (of the Constable de Bourbon, in 1527,) Cajetan was most cruelly illused to make him reveal his wealth, which had long before been laid up for him in heaven by the hands of the poor, and he endured with unconquered patience stripes, torture, and imprisonment. He held on bravely in the way of life he had taken up, trusting altogether to the Providence of God, Whose unfailing care of him was sometimes attested by miracles.

℟. The Lord loved him and beautified him; He clothed him with a robe of glory, * And crowned him at the gates of Paradise.
℣. The Lord hath put on him the breast-plate of faith, and hath adorned him.
℟. And crowned him at the gates of Paradise.

Lesson VI
He was a great advancer of care in the worship of God, of splendour in the house of God, of exactness in the holy ceremonies, and of the often receiving of the most holy Eucharist. The hideous forms and dark convolutions of heresy he more than once unmasked and abolished. He would remain in prayer with abundance of tears as much as eight hours at a time. He was often thrown into trances, and was celebrated for the gift of prophecy. One Christmas night at Rome, when he was praying before the Lord's manger, he was deemed worthy that the Mother of God should lay the Child Jesus in his arms. He sometimes spent the whole night in whipping himself, nor could he ever be persuaded to soften the hardness of his life, but witnessed that he was fain to die in sackcloth and ashes. In the end he fell ill with grief at the offence against God, which the people of Naples committed by rebelling (against the establishment of the Inquisition.) Refreshed by a vision from heaven, he departed thither (on the 7th day of August, 1547.) His body lieth at Naples in the Church of St. Paul, where it is held in great reverence. Pope Clement X., finding him to have been illustrious for miracles, both during his life and after his death, enrolled his name among those of the Saints.

℟. This is he which did according unto all that God commanded him; and God said unto him: Enter thou into My rest, * For thee have I seen righteous before Me among all people.
℣. This is he which loved not his life in this world, and is come unto an everlasting kingdom.
℟. For thee have I seen righteous before Me among all people.
℣. Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, * and to the Holy Ghost.
℟. For thee have I seen righteous before Me among all people.

Lesson VII
From the Holy Gospel according to Matthew
Matt 6:24-33
At that time: Jesus said unto His disciples: No man can serve two masters. And so on.

Homily by St. Augustine, Bishop of Hippo
Bk. ii. on the Lord's Sermon on the Mount, ch. xiv
No man can serve two masters, and this is further explained for either he will hate the one, and love the other; or else he will hold to the one, and despise the other. These words we ought carefully to weigh, for the Lord showeth straightway who be the two masters whom we have choice of: Ye cannot serve God and Mammon. Mammon is a term which the Hebrews are said to use for riches. It is also a Carthaginian word for the Punic for gain is mammon. He which serveth mammon, serveth that evil one who hath perversely chosen to be lord of these earthly things, and is called by the Lord the prince of this world. (John xiv. 30.) Of these two masters, either a man will hate the one and love the other, that is God or he will hold to the one and despise the other. He which serveth mammon holdeth to an hard and destroying master, for he is led captive by his lust, and sold a slave to the devil, and him loveth no man is there any man that loveth the devil And yet there be that hold to him.

℟. This is he which wrought great wonders before God, and praised the Lord with all his heart. * May he pray for all people, that their sins may be forgiven unto them.
℣. Behold a man without blame, a worshipper of God in truth, keeping himself clean from every evil work, and abiding still in his innocency.
℟. May he pray for all people, that their sins may be forgiven unto them.

Lesson VIII
Therefore, I say unto you, Take no thought for your life, what ye shall eat, or what ye shall drink; nor yet for your body, what ye shall put on lest, albeit such things are not idle, but needful to be sought after, yet the seeking for things even needful should divide the heart and our intention should be corrupted when we do something as it were mercifully that is, lest, when we would seem to be seeking another's good, it should be profit to ourselves, rather than benefit to him, that we seek and therefore we seem not to ourselves to sin, because we would seek things not idle, but needful.

℟. Let your loins be girded about, and your lights burning; * And ye yourselves like unto men that wait for their lord, when he will return from the wedding.
℣. Watch therefore, for ye know not what hour your Lord doth come.
℟. And ye yourselves like unto men that wait for their lord, when he will return from the wedding.
℣. Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, * and to the Holy Ghost.
℟. And ye yourselves like unto men that wait for their lord, when he will return from the wedding.
