St. Peter in Chains
Duplex majus
[Sancti/08-01]

Lesson IX: of The Holy Maccabean Martyrs (08-01r).

Lesson I
From the Acts of the Apostles
Acts 12:1-5
And at the same time, Herod the king stretched forth his hands, to afflict some of the church. And he killed James, the brother of John, with the sword. And seeing that it pleased the Jews, he proceeded to take up Peter also. Now it was in the days of the Azymes. And when he had apprehended him, he cast him into prison, delivering him to four files of soldiers to be kept, intending, after the pasch, to bring him forth to the people. Peter therefore was kept in prison. But prayer was made without ceasing by the church unto God for him.

℟. Simon Peter, before I called thee out of the ship, I knew thee, and appointed thee for a ruler over My people. * And I have given unto thee the keys of the kingdom of heaven.
℣. Whatsoever, thou shalt bind on earth, shall be bound in heaven; and whatsoever thou shalt loose on earth, shall be loosed in heaven.
℟. And I have given unto thee the keys of the kingdom of heaven.

Lesson II
Acts 12:6-8
And when Herod would have brought him forth, the same night Peter was sleeping between two soldiers, bound with two chains: and the keepers before the door kept the prison. And behold an angel of the Lord stood by him: and a light shined in the room: and he striking Peter on the side, raised him up, saying: Arise quickly. And the chains fell off from his hands. And the angel said to him: Gird thyself, and put on thy sandals. And he did so. And he said to him: Cast thy garment about thee, and follow me.

℟. Simon Peter, if thou lovest Me, feed My sheep. Lord, Thou knowest that I love thee; * I will lay down my life for thy sake.
℣. If I should die with thee, I will not deny thee.
℟. I will lay down my life for thy sake.

Lesson III
Acts 12:9-11
And going out, he followed him, and he knew not that it was true which was done by the angel: but thought he saw a vision. And passing through the first and the second ward, they came to the iron gate that leadeth to the city, which of itself opened to them. And going out, they passed on through one street: and immediately the angel departed from him. And Peter coming to himself, said: Now I know in very deed, that the Lord hath sent his angel, and hath delivered me out of the hand of Herod, and from all the expectation of the people of the Jews.

℟. Thou art Peter, and upon this rock I will build My Church, and the gates of hell shall not prevail against it. * And I will give unto thee the keys of the kingdom of heaven.
℣. Whatsoever thou shalt bind on earth, shall be bound in heaven; and whatsoever thou shalt loose on earth, shall be loosed in heaven.
℟. And I will give unto thee the keys of the kingdom of heaven.
℣. Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, * and to the Holy Ghost.
℟. And I will give unto thee the keys of the kingdom of heaven.

Lesson IV
In (the year of our Lord 439, in) the reign of the Emperor Theodosius the younger, his wife went to Jerusalem in fulfilment of a vow, and there was gifted with many presents. Among other things, they gave her in especial an iron chain, adorned with gold and precious stones, which they affirmed to be the same wherewith the Apostle Peter had been bound by King Herod. Eudocia, with godly reverence, afterwards sent this chain to Rome, to her daughter Eudoxia, who brought it to the Pope, and the Pope in return showed to her another chain wherewith the same Apostle had been shackled under the Emperor Nero.

℟. Lord, if it be Thou, bid me come unto thee on the water; * And Jesus stretched forth His Hand, and caught him, and said unto him: O thou of little faith, wherefore didst thou doubt?
℣. But when he saw the wind boisterous, he was afraid and, beginning to sink, he cried, saying: Lord, save me!
℟. And Jesus stretched forth His Hand, and caught him, and said unto him: O thou of little faith, wherefore didst thou doubt?

Lesson V
When then the Pope put together the Roman chain and that which had been brought from Jerusalem, it came to pass that they got so entangled the one with the other that they seemed no longer two but one chain. From this wonder these holy fetters began to receive such honour, that Eudoxia's Church of St. Peter on the Esquiline Mount was dedicated under the name of St. Peter in Chains, and a Feast - Day instituted upon the first day of August in memory of it.

℟. Arise, O Peter! Cast thy garment about thee, gird thee with strength for the saving of the nations. * The chains are fallen off from thine hands.
℣. The Angel of the Lord came upon him, and a light shined in the prison and he smote Peter on the side and raised him up, saying: Arise up quickly.
℟. The chains are fallen off from thine hands.

Lesson VI
From that time forth the honour which before had used to be paid to the profane festivity of the Gentiles, (held in memory of the dedication of the temple of Mars, and of the birth of Claudius,) began to be turned to the Chains of Peter, whose very touch healed the sick, and drove out devils. Among other such cases there befell in the year of man's Redemption 969, that of a certain Count, a servant of the Emperor Otho, who was possessed by an unclean spirit, and tore himself with his own teeth. This man the Emperor ordered to be taken to Pope John, and as soon as he had touched the Count's neck with the hallowed chains, the foul spirit came out of him, and left him free. And thenceforward the reverence for these holy chains greatly increased in the City.

℟. Thou art the Shepherd of the sheep, and the Prince of the Apostles, and unto thee hath God given all the kingdoms of the world. * Therefore unto thee hath He given the keys of the kingdom of heaven.
℣. Whatsoever thou shalt bind on earth shall be bound in heaven; and whatsoever thou shalt loose on earth shall be loosed in heaven.
℟. Therefore unto thee hath He given the keys of the kingdom of heaven.
℣. Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, * and to the Holy Ghost.
℟. Therefore unto thee hath He given the keys of the kingdom of heaven.

Lesson VII
From the Holy Gospel according to Matthew
Matt 16:13-19
At that time Jesus came into the coasts of Caesarea Philippi, and He asked His disciples, saying Who do men say that I, the Son of Man, am And so on.

Homily by St. Augustine, Bishop (of Hippo.)
29th on the Saints
Peter was the only one of the Apostles who was worthy to hear the words Amen, I say unto thee that thou art Peter, and upon this rock I will build My Church. Worthy indeed must he be, who, when the nations are to be built up into a Temple of God, is chosen as the ground-stone whereon the building is to stand the pillar whereby it is to be held up, and the key wherethrough entrance is to be made into the kingdom. Concerning him the Word of God saith That they brought forth the sick into the streets, and laid them on beds and couches, that at the least the shadow of Peter passing by might overshadow some of them. (Acts v. 15.) If the shadow of his body then could give help, how much more shall the fulness of his strength give help now. If the very air, as he passed by, was then profitable to such as besought him, how much more shall his favour profit where now he abideth. It is with reason that, throughout all the Churches of Christ, the iron chains wherewith he was afflicted are reckoned more precious than gold.

℟. Peter, I have prayed for thee, that thy faith fail not * And when thou art converted, strengthen thy brethren.
℣. Flesh and blood hath not revealed it unto thee, but My Father Which is in heaven.
℟. And when thou art converted, strengthen thy brethren.

Lesson VIII
If his shadow as a visitor was so healthful, what is his chain now that he bindeth and looseth. If his empty image in the air had healing power, how much power must have been contracted from his body by those chains, whose iron weight sank into his holy limbs during his suffering. If, before he testified, he was so mighty to aid them that called upon him, how much mightier is he now since his victory. Blessed were the links, doomed to be changed from fetters and shackles, into a crown, which by touching the Apostle, made him a Martyr. Blessed were the chains, whose prisoner left them for the Cross of Christ, and which brought him thither, not as the instruments of condemnation, but of sanctification.

℟. Jesus asked His disciples, saying: Who do men say that I, the Son of Man, am? Peter answered, and said: Thou art the Christ, the Son of the living God. * And I say unto thee, that thou art Peter, and upon this rock I will build My Church.
℣. Blessed art thou, Simon Bar-Jona, for flesh and blood hath not revealed it unto thee, but My Father Which is in heaven.
℟. And I say unto thee, that thou art Peter, and upon this rock I will build My Church.
℣. Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, * and to the Holy Ghost.
℟. And I say unto thee, that thou art Peter, and upon this rock I will build My Church.
