Fourth Day within the Octave of the Assumption
Semiduplex
[Sancti/08-18bmv]

Lesson IX: of St. Agapitus, Martyr (08-18r).

Lesson I
From the Song of Songs
Song 4:1-4
thy teeth as flocks of sheep, that are shorn which come up from the washing, all with twins, and there is none barren among them. thy lips are as a scarlet lace: and thy speech sweet. thy cheeks are as a piece of a pomegranate, besides that which lieth hid within. thy neck, is as the tower of David, which is built with bulwarks: a thousand bucklers hang upon it, all the armour of valiant men.
How beautiful art thou, my love, how beautiful art thou! thy eyes are doves' eyes, besides what is hid within. thy hair is as flocks of goats, which Come up from mount Galaad.

℟. I saw her, when, fair like a dove, she winged her flight above the rivers of waters. The priceless savour of her perfumes hung heavy in her garments. * And about her it was as the flower of roses in the spring of the year, and lilies of the valleys.
℣. Who is this that cometh out of the wilderness like a pillar of smoke, perfumed with myrrh and frankincense?
℟. And about her it was as the flower of roses in the spring of the year, and lilies of the valleys.

Lesson II
Song 4:7-10
Thou art all fair, O my love, and there is not a spot in thee. Come from Libanus, my spouse, come from Libanus, come: thou shalt be crowned from the top of Amana, from the top of Sanir and Hermon, from the dens of the lions, from the mountains of the leopards. Thou hast wounded my heart, my sister, my spouse, thou hast wounded my heart with one of thy eyes, and with one hair of thy neck. How beautiful are thy breasts, my sister, my spouse! thy breasts are more beautiful than wine, and the sweet smell of thy ointments above all aromatical spices.

℟. I was exalted like a cedar in Lebanon, and as a cypress-tree upon Mount Zion. Like the best myrrh * I yielded a pleasant odour.
℣. Like cinnamon and sweet balsam.
℟. I yielded a pleasant odour.

Lesson III
Song 4:11-15
thy lips, my spouse, are as a dropping honeycomb, honey and milk are under thy tongue; and the smell of thy garments, as the smell of frankincense. My sister, my spouse, is a garden enclosed, a garden enclosed, a fountain sealed up. thy plants are a paradise of pomegranates with the fruits of the orchard. Cypress with spikenard. Spikenard and saffron, sweet cane and cinnamon, with all the trees of Libanus, myrrh and aloes with all the chief perfumes. The fountain of gardens: the well of living waters, which run with a strong stream from Libanus.

℟. Who is this that cometh up like the sun? This, comely as Jerusalem? * The daughters of Zion saw her, and called her blessed: the queens also, and they praised her.
℣. And about her it was as the flower of roses in the spring of the year, and lilies of the valleys.
℟. The daughters of Zion saw her, and called her blessed the queens also, and they praised her.
℣. Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, * and to the Holy Ghost.
℟. The daughters of Zion saw her, and called her blessed the queens also, and they praised her.

Lesson IV
The Lesson is taken from the Apostolic Constitution of Pope Pius XII

All these proofs and considerations of the holy Fathers and Theologians are based upon the Sacred Scriptures as the final foundation; they establish the blessed Mother of God before our eyes, as it were, as most closely united to her divine Son and always sharing his lot. Therefore, it seemeth impossible to think of her who conceived Christ, gave birth to him, gave him milk, held him in her arms, and clasped him to her heart, as being, after her earthly life, separated from him in body if not in soul. Since our Redeemer is the Son of Mary, he could surely not do otherwise, as the most perfect observer of the divine law, than to honour his most beloved Mother in addition to honouring his eternal Father. And, since it was possible for him to give her this great honour, that she might be preserved from the corruption of the grave, we must believe that he really did so.

℟. When the Lord beheld the daughter of Jerusalem adorned with her jewels, He greatly desired her beauty * And when the daughters of Zion saw her, they cried out that she was most blessed, saying thy name is as ointment poured forth.
℣. Upon thy right hand did stand the Queen in a vesture of gold wrought about with diverse colours.
℟. And when the daughters of Zion saw her, they cried out that she was most blessed, saying thy name is as ointment poured forth.

Lesson V
And this indeed should be borne in mind, that as far back as the second century the holy Fathers represented Mary as the new Eve of a new Adam, and closely joined to him (although dependently upon him) in the fight against the hellish enemy which, as already foretold in the protogospel, would end in complete victory over sin and death, which two phases are always joined in the writings of the Apostle of the Gentiles. Wherefore, just as the essential glory of Christ's resurrection was a part and final trophy of this victory, so also the association of Mary with her Son in this common struggle was to end with the glorification of her virginal body; for as the same Apostle saith : When this mortal shall have put on immortality, then shall be brought to pass the saying that is written, Death is swallowed up in victory.

℟. All generations shall call me blessed. * For He that is mighty, even the Lord, hath done to me great things; and Holy is His Name.
℣. And his mercy is on them that fear Him, from generation to generation.
℟. He that is mighty, even the Lord, hath done to me great things; and Holy is His Name.

Lesson VI
Therefore the august Mother of God, from all eternity united in a hidden way with Jesus Christ by one and the same decree of predestination, immaculate in her conception, an inviolate virgin in her divine motherhood, the gracious cooperator of the Divine Redeemer who triumphed completely over sin and its consequences, was finally granted as the supreme crown of her privileges that she should be preserved free from the corruption of the grave, and that, like her own Son, having conquered death, she might be taken up, body and soul, to the exalted glory of heaven, where she sitteth in splendour at the right hand of her very Son, the immortal King of ages.

℟. Blessed art thou, O Virgin Mary, who hast carried the Lord, the Maker of the world. * Thou hast borne Him Who created thee, and thou abidest a virgin for ever.
℣. Hail, Mary, full of grace. the Lord is with thee.
℟. Thou hast borne Him Who created thee, and thou abidest a virgin for ever.
℣. Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, * and to the Holy Ghost.
℟. Thou hast borne Him Who created thee, and thou abidest a virgin for ever.

Lesson VII
From the Holy Gospel according to Luke
Luke 1:41-50
At that time : Elisabeth was filled with the Holy Ghost: and she spake out with a loud voice, and said, Blessed art thou among women. And so on, and that which followeth.

A Homily by St. Peter Damian the Bishop
In Nativitate B. M. V.
O Virgin Mother of God, at whose beauty the sun and the moon stand in awe, come to the aid of them that unceasingly call upon thee, O Lady. Turn thou unto us, o turn thou unto us, O Sulamitess, turn thou unto us, o turn thou unto us that we may behold thee, O blessed, yea more than blessed Maid, turn thou unto us in thy power. He that is mighty hath magnified thee, and hath given thee all power in heaven and in earth. Nothing is impossible to thee, to whom it is possible to shew the most desolate souls the hope of happiness. For how can that Power ignore thy power, when it received its fleshly origin from thy flesh? Thou standest before that golden altar of reconciliation, not only asking, but commanding, as mistress rather than handmaid. Let thy nature move thee, because the more power thou art, the more merciful must thou needs be. For it doth surely redound to the glory of power, to be unwilling to exact vengeance for wrong. Look upon us through love; I know, O Lady, that thou art the most blessed and that thou lovest with an unconquerable love them that in thee and through thee, thy Son and thy God hath loved with a great love. Who knoweth how many times thou didst turn away the anger of the Judge when the virtue of justice went forth from the presence of God.

℟. Grace is poured into thy lips * Therefore God hath blessed thee for ever.
℣. thy garments smell of myrrh, and aloes, and cassia, out of the ivory palaces whereby kings' daughters among thy honourable women have made thee glad.
℟. Therefore God hath blessed thee for ever.

Lesson VIII
Turn thou unto us through thy very uniqueness. In thy hands are the treasures of the Lord's mercy, and thou alone art the chosen one to whom such great grace is given. Heaven forbid thy hand should ever weaken, for thou wilt never have to seek any occasion of saving the unfortunate or of pouring you thy mercy. Nor doth thy glory ever grow less, but it ever increaseth, for penitents are taken back into favour, and just souls are raised into glory. Turn thou unto us, O Sulamitess, that is, one who was despised, whose soul the sword did pierce and who hath been called the spouse of a carpenter. And why do we ask thee to turn unto us? So that we may behold thee. The greatest glory after seeing God is to see thee, to cling to thee, and to dwell in the fastness of thy protection. Hear thou us, for thy Son doth honour thee and denieth thee nothing, and he is God who is blessed forever and ever. Amen.

℟. O Virgin Mary, Mother of God, blessed art thou that didst believe the Lord, for there hath been a performance of those things which were told thee from the Lord. Behold, thou art exalted over choirs of Angels. * Plead for us with the Lord our God.
℣. Hail, Mary, full of grace, the Lord is with thee.
℟. Plead for us with the Lord our God.
℣. Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, * and to the Holy Ghost.
℟. Plead for us with the Lord our God.
