St. Hyacinth, Confessor
Duplex
[Sancti/08-17]

Lessons I–III: from the Scripture of the day.
Lessons VII–VIII: from the Common of a Confessor not a Bishop (C5).
Lesson IX: of Octave of St. Lawrence, Martyr (08-17t).

Lesson IV
Hyacinth was a Pole, and was born (in the year 1185) of the noble and Christian family (of the Counts of Odrowatz,) in the town of Camien, in the diocese of Wratislaw. He was trained up in learning from his youth, and after studying law and theology, became a Canon of Crakow, where he was eminent above his fellows by the singular godliness of his life and the depth of his learning. Being at Rome, (in 1218,) he was received into the Order of Friars Preachers by the Founder, St. Dominic, himself, and kept in holiness to the end of his life the rule of perfect living which he had learnt from him. He remained always a virgin, and loved modesty, long-suffering, lowliness, self-restraint, and all other good graces as his heritage in the life of a Friar.

℟. The Lord made him honourable, and defended him from his enemies, and kept him safe from those that lay in wait for him; * And gave him perpetual glory.
℣. He went down with him into the pit, and left him not in bonds.
℟. And gave him perpetual glory.

Lesson V
In the heat of his love for God, he sometimes passed whole nights in pouring forth prayers and chastising his body, to which he never gave rest but in leaning against a stone or lying upon the ground. He was sent back to his own country, and, on the way, founded a very large house of his Order at Friesach and soon afterwards another at Crakow. In other provinces of the kingdom of Poland he founded four others, and it passeth belief what success he had with all kinds of men, by his preaching of the Word of God, and the innocency of his life. Not a day passed wherein he did not display some bright gift of faith, godliness, or innocency.

℟. The Lord loved him and beautified him; He clothed him with a robe of glory, * And crowned him at the gates of Paradise.
℣. The Lord hath put on him the breast-plate of faith, and hath adorned him.
℟. And crowned him at the gates of Paradise.

Lesson VI
The zeal of this most holy man for the salvation of his neighbors was that which God marked by His greatest miracles. Among these is famous the time when coming to the River Vistula near Wisgrade, and finding it in flood, he crossed it without a boat, drawing over also his three companions standing upon the waves upon his outspread mantle. He led a wonderful life for nearly forty years after his profession, and then foretold to his brethren the day of his death. Upon the very day of the Feast of the Assumption of the Virgin, he finished the recitation of the Office of the Church, received the Sacraments with the utmost reverence, and then with the words, Into thy hands, O Lord, gave up his soul to God in the year of salvation 1257. He was illustrious for miracles even after his death, and Pope Clement VIII. numbered him among the saints.

℟. This is he which did according unto all that God commanded him; and God said unto him: Enter thou into My rest, * For thee have I seen righteous before Me among all people.
℣. This is he which loved not his life in this world, and is come unto an everlasting kingdom.
℟. For thee have I seen righteous before Me among all people.
℣. Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, * and to the Holy Ghost.
℟. For thee have I seen righteous before Me among all people.
