Octave of St. Lawrence, Martyr
Simplex
[Sancti/08-17t]

Lesson IV
Commemoration of: Octave of St. Lawrence, Martyr
(21th.)
From one of the Tracts upon John, written by St. Augustine, Bishop (of Hippo.)
Brethren, we know that all we who are in the body of the Lord, and abide in Him that He also may abide in us, must needs in this world live even unto the end among the wicked; by the wicked I mean not such as blaspheme Christ, for it is now but few who are found who blaspheme Him with their tongue, but many there be who do it by their lives. Among such we must needs live, even unto the end. But what is it that He said, He that abideth in Me and I in him? (John xv. 5.) Is it not that whereunto the Martyrs gave ear, He that endureth to the end shall be saved? (Matth. x. 22.)
In what wise abode in Him the holy Lawrence whose Feast-day we keep to-day? He abode in Him until trial came; he abode in Him until He was browbeaten by the tyrant; he abode in Him until his fearful sentence came; he abode in Him even unto death. That is saying but a little of him; he abode in Him even in savage torture. He was not slain quickly, but tortured in the fire. He was allowed to remain long alive, and yet not allowed to remain long alive, but slowly put to death. During that long death, in all that agony, since he had well eaten and well drunk, filled with that Food, and drunken with that Cup, he felt not the torture.
Nor the holy Martyr Xystus, whose day we kept five days ago, had said unto him: Be not sorrowful, my son (for he was the Bishop and Lawrence the Deacon,) be not sorrowful, said he, yet three days and thou shalt follow me. These three days of which he spake were the three clear days which elapse between the day of the passion of holy Xystus, and this day, the day of the passion of holy Lawrence. The three days are those between. O what a strange comfort! He saith not: Be not sorrowful, my son; the persecution will come to an end, and thou wilt be safe, but Be not sorrowful, whither I go, thither shalt thou follow me, and the time will not be long. Three clear days shall pass, and then thou shalt be with me. Lawrence received the prophecy, conquered the devil, and entered into his triumph.

[Te Deum follows]
