St. Philip Benizi, Confessor
Duplex
[Sancti/08-23]

Lessons I–III: from the Scripture of the day.
Lesson IX: of Vigil of St. Bartholomew, Apostle (08-23o).

Lesson IV
This Philip was a scion of the noble Florentine family of the Benizi from his very cradle he showed signs of holiness. When he had scarcely entered the fifth month of his life, his cries marvellously assumed the form of words, entreating his mother to give some alms to the servants of the Mother of God. While he was a young man at Paris studying letters, but ever of a fervent piety, he stirred up in many the love of our Fatherland which is in heaven. After his return to his own country, the most Blessed Virgin appeared to him in a vision, and specially called on him to enter the Order of her Servants, which had then been newly founded. He withdrew himself to a cave on Monte Senario, where he led a life hard as touching the chastisement of the flesh, but sweet with thoughts of the agonies of Christ. Thence he came forth and went through nearly all Europe and great part of Asia, preaching the Gospel, founding Guilds everywhere in honour of the Seven Sorrows of the Mother of God, and extending his Order by the wonderful example of his own holy life.

℟. The Lord made him honourable, and defended him from his enemies, and kept him safe from those that lay in wait for him; * And gave him perpetual glory.
℣. He went down with him into the pit, and left him not in bonds.
℟. And gave him perpetual glory.

Lesson V
He was forced against his own wishes to undertake the duties of General of his Order, and, in his love of God and of the spreading of the Catholic Faith, sent forth brethren to preach the Gospel of Christ in Russia. He himself went through many cities of Italy, stilled the raging quarrels of the inhabitants, and recalled many of them to their obedience to the Bishop of Rome. He left nothing undone to forward the salvation of his neighbour, and brought the most depraved wretches to leave the slough of their sins, to do penance, and to love Jesus Christ. He was most earnest in prayer, and was often seen to fall into trances while engaged in it. Virginity he so prized that to his very last breath he kept it unsullied by dint of self-imposed and stern penances.

℟. The Lord loved him and beautified him; He clothed him with a robe of glory, * And crowned him at the gates of Paradise.
℣. The Lord hath put on him the breast-plate of faith, and hath adorned him.
℟. And crowned him at the gates of Paradise.

Lesson VI
Everywhere appeared in him an extraordinary pity towards the poor, whereof it is a famous instance that at the village of Camiliano in the territory of Sienna he gave his own garment to a naked leper who asked him for an alms, and as soon as the said leper had cast it about him he was straightway cleansed of his leprosy. The fame of this miracle spread far and wide, and some of the Cardinals who had assembled at Viterbo after the death of Clement IV., to elect a successor to him, cast their eyes upon Philip, with whose heavenly wisdom they were also acquainted. When the man of God found how things stood, lest he should be constrained to take upon him the burden of the Pastoral Office, he went and hid himself on Montagnate, until Gregory X. had been proclaimed Pope. By his prayers he obtained medicinal powers for the waters in these mountains, which are still called St. Philip's Baths. At length, (on the 22nd of August,) in the year 1285, he departed this life in a most holy manner at Todi, while embracing the image of Christ hanging upon the Cross, which he called his book. At his grave the blind received their sight, the lame walked, and the dead were raised. Pope Clement X., finding him famous for these and many other great signs and wonders, enrolled his name among those of the Saints.

℟. This is he which did according unto all that God commanded him; and God said unto him: Enter thou into My rest, * For thee have I seen righteous before Me among all people.
℣. This is he which loved not his life in this world, and is come unto an everlasting kingdom.
℟. For thee have I seen righteous before Me among all people.
℣. Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, * and to the Holy Ghost.
℟. For thee have I seen righteous before Me among all people.

Lesson VII
From the Holy Gospel according to Luke
Luke 12:32-35
At that time, Jesus said unto His disciples: Fear not, little flock, for it is your Father's good pleasure to give you the kingdom. And so on.

Homily by the Venerable Bede, Priest at Jarrow, and Doctor of the Church.
Bk. iv. Ch. 54 on Luke xii.
The elect are called a little flock, perchance because the reprobate are far more in number than they, but, more probably, because they love to be lowly, since it is God's will that however much His Church should grow in numbers, she should grow with lowliness even unto the end of the world, and should enter lowly into that kingdom which is hers by His promise. That kingdom He promiseth to her here, when He biddeth her to seek only the kingdom of God, and, to comfort her in her travail, He doth so sweetly and so graciously say that her Father will give it to her.

℟. This is he which wrought great wonders before God, and praised the Lord with all his heart. * May he pray for all people, that their sins may be forgiven unto them.
℣. Behold a man without blame, a worshipper of God in truth, keeping himself clean from every evil work, and abiding still in his innocency.
℟. May he pray for all people, that their sins may be forgiven unto them.

Lesson VIII
Sell what ye have and give alms. Fear not, He saith, lest, while ye fight for the kingdom of God, ye should lack such things as are needful for this life, nay rather, sell even that which ye have, and give alms. This doth, whosoever for the Lord's sake leaveth all that he hath, and then worketh with his hands, that so he may have to eat, and withal to give alms. In this doth the Apostle boast himself, saying I have coveted no man's silver, or gold, or apparel, as ye yourselves know for these hands have ministered unto my necessities, and to them that were with me. I have showed you all things, how that so labouring ye ought to support the weak. (Acts xx. 33, 34, 35.)

℟. Let your loins be girded about, and your lights burning; * And ye yourselves like unto men that wait for their lord, when he will return from the wedding.
℣. Watch therefore, for ye know not what hour your Lord doth come.
℟. And ye yourselves like unto men that wait for their lord, when he will return from the wedding.
℣. Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, * and to the Holy Ghost.
℟. And ye yourselves like unto men that wait for their lord, when he will return from the wedding.
