St. Augustine of Hippo, Bishop, Confessor, and Doctor of the Church
Duplex
[Sancti/08-28]

Lessons I–III: from the Scripture of the day.
Lessons VII–IX: from the Common of a Doctor Bishop (C4a).

Lesson IV
Augustine was born of honourable parents at Tagaste in Africa, (upon the 13th day of November, in the year of our Lord 354.) As a boy his great intellectual sharpness caused him to distance all his companions in learning. When he was living at Carthage as a young man, he fell into the heresy of the Manichaeans. He afterwards went to Rome, and was thence sent to Milan to teach Rhetoric. At Milan he often went to hear the sermons of Bishop Ambrose, by whose labours he was drawn to the Catholic Church, and by whom he was baptized (on Holy Saturday, 387,) at the age of thirty-three. After his return to Africa, (in 388,) Valerius, the illustrious and saintly Bishop of Hippo, finding him to unite holiness of life, with Catholic profession, made him a Priest, (about the end of 390.) At this time he founded a sort of family of godly men, who lived and worshipped in common with him, and whom he earnestly formed upon the model of the Apostolic life and teaching. The Manichaean heresy flaming forth with violence, he began strongly to attack it, and confounded the arch-heretic Fortunatus.

℟. I have found David My servant, with My holy oil have I anointed him * For My hand shall help him.
℣. The enemy shall prevail nothing against him, nor the son of wickedness afflict him.
℟. For My hand shall help him.

Lesson V
Valerius, moved by the godly zeal of Augustine, (in December 395,) joined him with himself as an assistant in his duties of Bishop (and dying in the year following, was succeeded by him.) He was lowly and pure in the highest degree. His furniture and dress were plain, and his food of the commonest sort, which he always seasoned when at table by either reading some religious book, or arguing upon some religious subject. His tenderness to the poor was such that, failing all other resources, he broke up the hallowed vessels to relieve their wants. It was his rule not to dwell or be very close friends with any woman, a rule which he did not relax even in the case of his sister and niece, for he was accustomed to say, that although no scandal could arise in the case of such near kinswomen, yet it might arise concerning the women friends who sought their company. He never ceased to preach the Word of God, until he was disabled by heavy sickness. He was always an hard follower after heretics, and by his words and his writings never suffered them to rest anywhere. In great measure, he purged Africa of the Manicheans, Donatists, Pelagians, and other heretics.

℟. I have laid help upon one that is mighty, and have exalted one chosen out of My people * For My hand shall help him.
℣. I have found David My servant, with My holy oil have I anointed him.
℟. For My hand shall help him.

Lesson VI
He wrote so much, and that with such godliness and understanding, that he is to be held among the very chiefest of them by whom the teachings of Christianity have been shown forth. He is one of the first of those whom later theologians have followed, in method, and in argument. He fell sick of a fever what time the Vandals were laying Africa waste, and when they were busy in the third month of besieging Hippo. When he understood that his departure from this present life was at hand, he caused the Psalms of David which most speak the language of repentance to be placed before him, and read them with tears, for he was wont to say that even if a man's conscience were to accuse him of no sin, he should not dare to leave this world except as a penitent. His senses remained vigorous to the last, and it was while rapt in prayer, in the presence of the brethren whom he had exhorted to love, godliness, and all goodness, that he departed for heaven, (upon the 28th of August, 430.) He lived 76 years, whereof he had been a Bishop nearly thirty six. His body was first carried to Sardinia, but Luitprand, King of the Lombards, afterwards bought it for a great price, and took it to Ticino, where it is honourably buried.

℟. This is he which wrought great wonders before God, and the whole earth is full of his teaching * May he pray for all people, that their sins may be forgiven unto them
℣. This is he which loved not his life in this world, and hath attained unto the kingdom of heaven.
℟. May he pray for all people, that their sins may be forgiven unto them
℣. Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, * and to the Holy Ghost.
℟. May he pray for all people, that their sins may be forgiven unto them
