Beheading of St. John the Baptist
Duplex majus
[Sancti/08-29]

Lesson IX: of St. Sabina, Martyr (08-29cc).

Lesson I
Lesson from the book of Jeremias
Jer 1:1-5
The words of Jeremias the son of Helcias, of the priests that were in Anathoth, in the land of Benjamin. The word of the Lord which came to him in the days of Josias the son of Amon king of Juda, in the thirteenth year of his reign. And which came to him in the days of Joakim the son of Josias king of Juda, unto the end of the eleventh year of Sedecias the son of Josias king of Juda, even unto the carrying away of Jerusalem captive, in the fifth month. And the word of the Lord came to me, saying: Before I formed thee in the bowels of thy mother, I knew thee: and before thou camest forth out of the womb, I sanctified thee, and made thee a prophet unto the nations.

℟. Herod the King sent forth, and laid hold upon John, and bound him in prison, for he feared him, for Herodias' sake, * His brother Philip's wife, for he had married her.
℣. For John had rebuked Herod, for Herodias' sake.
℟. His brother Philip's wife, for he had married her.

Lesson II
Jer 1:6-10
And I said: Ah, ah, ah, Lord God: behold, I cannot speak, for I am a child. And the Lord said to me: Say not: I am a child: for thou shalt go to all that I shall send thee: and whatsoever I shall command thee, thou shalt speak. Be not afraid at their presence: for I am with thee to deliver thee, saith the Lord. And the Lord put forth his hand, and touched my mouth: and the Lord said to me: Behold I have given my words in thy mouth: Lo, I have set thee this day over the nations, and over the kingdoms, to root up, and pull down, and to waste, and to destroy, and to build, and to plant.

℟. John the Baptist had rebuked Herod, * For Herodias' sake, his brother's wife, whom he had married while his brother was yet alive.
℣. Herod sent an executioner, and commanded to behead John in the prison.
℟. For Herodias' sake, his brother's wife, whom he had married while his brother was yet alive.

Lesson III
Jer 1:17-19
Thou therefore gird up thy loins, and arise, and speak to them all that I command thee. Be not afraid at their presence: for I will make thee not to fear their countenance. For behold I have made thee this day a fortified city, and a pillar of iron, and a wall of brass, over all the land, to the kings of Juda, to the princes thereof, and to the priests, and to the people of the land. And they shall fight against thee, and shall not prevail: for I am with thee, saith the Lord, to deliver thee.

℟. The damsel danced, and her mother charged her, saying: * See thou ask nothing but only the head of John. And the king was sorry, for his oath's sake, and for their sakes which sat with him.
℣. The damsel said unto her mother What shall I ask? And she said:
℟. See thou ask nothing, but only the head of John. And the king was sorry, for his oath's sake, and for their sakes which sat with him.
℣. Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, * and to the Holy Ghost.
℟. And the king was sorry, for his oath's sake, and for their sakes which sat with him.

Lesson IV
From the Book upon Virgins, written by St. Ambrose, Bishop (of Milan.)
ii. 6
We must not hurry by the record of the Blessed Baptist John. We must ask what he was, and by whom, and why, and how, and when he was slain. He was a righteous man murdered by adulterers. The guilty passed upon their judge the sentence of death. Moreover, the death of the Prophet was the fee of a dancing-girl. And lastly, there was a feature about it from which even savages shrink; the order for completing the atrocity was given amid the merriment of a dinner-party. From banquet to prison, from prison to banquet, that was the course run by the servants of the murderer. How many horrors does this simple crime embrace within its details?

℟. The righteous shall grow as the lily * Yea, he shall flourish in the presence of the Lord for ever.
℣. Those that be planted in the house of the Lord, shall flourish in the courts of the house of our God.
℟. Yea, he shall flourish in the presence of the Lord for ever.

Lesson V
Who is there, that, on seeing the messenger hasten from the dinner-table to the prison, would not have forthwith concluded that he carried an order for the Prophet's release. If any one had heard that it was Herod's birth-day, and that he was giving a great feast, and that he had offered a damsel the choice of whatever she listed, and that thereupon a messenger had been sent to John's dungeon. If any one, I say, had heard this, what would he have supposed? He would have concluded that the damsel had asked and obtained John's freedom. What have executions in common with dinners, or death with gaiety? While the banquet was going on, the Prophet was hurried to death, by an order from the reveller whom he had not troubled even by a prayer for release. He was slain with the sword, and his head was served up in a plate. This was the new dish demanded by a cruelty which the Feast had been powerless to glut.

℟. This is he which knew righteousness, and saw great wonders, and made his prayer unto the Most High * And he is numbered among the Saints.
℣. This is he which loved not his life in this world, and is come unto an everlasting kingdom.
℟. And he is numbered among the Saints.

Lesson VI
Look, savage King, look at a decoration which suiteth well with thy banquet. Put out thine hand, so as to lose no part of the luxury of cruelty, and let the streams of the sacred blood run between thy fingers. Thine hunger the dinner hath been unable to satisfy, thy cups have not been able to quench thine inhuman thirst. Suck, suck the blood which the still palpitating veins are discharging from the place where the neck has been severed. Look at the eyes. Even in death they remain the eyes of a witness of thine uncleanness, but they are closing themselves upon the spectacle of thy pleasures. Those eyes indeed are shutting but it seems not so much from the laws of natural death, as from horror at the scene of thine enjoyment. The golden mouth, whose bloodless lips are silent now, can repeat no more the denunciation which thou couldest not bear to hear, and still thou art afraid of it.

℟. The Lord made him honourable, and defended him from his enemies, and kept him safe from those that lay in wait for him, * And gave him perpetual glory.
℣. He went down with him into the pit, and left him not in bonds.
℟. And gave him perpetual glory.
℣. Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, * and to the Holy Ghost.
℟. And gave him perpetual glory.

Lesson VII
From the Holy Gospel according to Mark
Mark 6:17-29
At that time Herod had sent forth, and laid hold upon John, and bound him in prison, for Herodias' sake, his brother Philip's wife, for he had married her. And so on.

Homily by St. Augustine, Bishop (of Hippo.)
New Sermons.
The reading of the Holy Gospel hath set a scene of cruelty before our eyes even the head of St. John in a charger; a message of death sent forth to discharge the bloody commands of one that hateth the truth; a damsel dancing, and a mother rabid; a rash oath sworn in the midst of uncleanness and the revels of a supper, and a wicked fulfillment of the oath so sworn. It befell unto John according to his own saying. For he had said concerning the Lord Jesus Christ: He must increase, but I must decrease (John iii. 30,) so John decreased by an head, and Christ's height was made higher upon the Cross. The truth drew hatred. It could not be borne in patience that the holy man of God should utter a rebuke, albeit he sought by his rebuke nothing but the soul's health of them to whom he addressed it. They repaid him evil for good.

℟. Lord, Thou hast given him his heart's desire. * And hast not withholden the request of his lips.
℣. For Thou hast prevented him with the blessings of sweetness: Thou hast set a crown of precious stones upon his head.
℟. And hast not withholden the request of his lips.

Lesson VIII
For what could he say but that whereof he was full? And what could they answer him but that whereof they were full? He sowed wheat, and found thorns. He had said unto the King: It is not lawful for thee to have thy brother's wife. Lust had got the better of the King, and he kept a woman whom it was not lawful for him to have, even his brother's wife. But she pleased him, so that his cruelty was lulled. He respected the Saint who had spoken the truth to him. But the horrible woman conceived hatred, and by-and-by brought it forth. When she brought forth, she brought forth a girl, a dancing-girl.

℟. The Lord hath put on him a robe of honour, * And put about his head a crown of joy.
℣. With the bread of life and understanding hath the Lord fed him, and given him the water of health and wisdom to drink.
℟. And put about his head a crown of joy.
℣. Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, * and to the Holy Ghost.
℟. And put about his head a crown of joy.
