St. Louis, Confessor
Semiduplex
[Sancti/08-25]

Lessons I–III: from the Scripture of the day.

Lesson IV
Louis IX, King of France, (was born on the 25 th day of April, in the year of our Lord 1215.) At the age of twelve years he lost his father. He was brought up under the godly care of his mother, Blanche of Castile. In the twentieth year of his reign he fell grievously sick, and the thought then occurred to him of delivering Jerusalem out of the hands of the Moslems. On his health being restored, he received a banner from the Bishop of Paris, and crossed the sea (to Egypt) with a very great army. In his first battle he put the Saracens to flight, but, a great number of the soldiers perishing by disease, he was himself conquered and taken prisoner.

℟. The Lord made him honourable, and defended him from his enemies, and kept him safe from those that lay in wait for him; * And gave him perpetual glory.
℣. He went down with him into the pit, and left him not in bonds.
℟. And gave him perpetual glory.

Lesson V
The King afterwards entered into treaty with the Saracens, and he and his army departed in peace. He remained five years in the East, during which he redeemed great numbers of Christians from slavery among the unbelievers, and also brought many of the unbelievers themselves to believe in Christ. Moreover he rebuilt several cities of the Christians at his own cost. Meanwhile, his mother departed this life, whereby he was constrained to return home, where he gave himself up entirely to works of godliness.

℟. The Lord loved him and beautified him; He clothed him with a robe of glory, * And crowned him at the gates of Paradise.
℣. The Lord hath put on him the breast-plate of faith, and hath adorned him.
℟. And crowned him at the gates of Paradise.

Lesson VI
He built many monasteries, and charitable institutions for the poor. By his alms he relieved the needy, and often visited the sick, for whom he not only provided at his own cost, but waited on them with his own hands with such things as they wanted. He wore a plain dress and constantly chastised his body with hair-cloth and fasting. (In the year 1270) he crossed the sea (to Tunis) to make war again upon the Saracens. His camp was pitched in sight of the enemy, but he was seized with pestilence, and died uttering the words I will come into thy house I will worship toward thy holy temple, and praise thy Name. (Pss. v, 8; cxxxvii, 2.) His body was afterwards carried to Paris, and it is kept and honoured in the famous Abbey Church of St. Denis, but his head in the oratory called La Sainte Chapelle. He was renowned for miracles, and Pope Boniface VIII. enrolled his name among those of the Saints.

℟. This is he which did according unto all that God commanded him; and God said unto him: Enter thou into My rest, * For thee have I seen righteous before Me among all people.
℣. This is he which loved not his life in this world, and is come unto an everlasting kingdom.
℟. For thee have I seen righteous before Me among all people.
℣. Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, * and to the Holy Ghost.
℟. For thee have I seen righteous before Me among all people.

Lesson VII
From the Holy Gospel according to Luke
Luke 19:12-26
At that time, Jesus spoke this parable unto His disciples: A certain nobleman went into a far country to receive for himself a kingdom and to return. And so on.

Homily by St. Ambrose, Bishop (of Milan.)
Book viii. on Luke.
It is well ordered that, being about to call the Gentiles, and to command the destruction of those Jews, who would not have Christ to reign over them, He should put forth first this parable; lest it should be said He had given the Jews no means of becoming better. How can they be asked to repay who have received nothing? That is not a piece of silver of little worth, which, when the woman before mentioned in this Gospel (xv. 8) hath lost, she lighteth a candle, and sweepeth the house, and searcheth diligently until she findeth it.

℟. This is he which wrought great wonders before God, and praised the Lord with all his heart. * May he pray for all people, that their sins may be forgiven unto them.
℣. Behold a man without blame, a worshipper of God in truth, keeping himself clean from every evil work, and abiding still in his innocency.
℟. May he pray for all people, that their sins may be forgiven unto them.

Lesson VIII
A single pound one gained ten and another five pounds. Perchance by him which had the five pounds is signified he which practiseth well, since the body hath five senses, and by him which had the ten, that is, double the other, he which is learned and orthodox in the deep things of doctrine, as well as upright in his practical life. Hence also in Matthew we have five talents and two talents the five talents signifying good practice, and the two talents precept and practice together. So that that which counteth as the greater number is but a fraction of the lesser number.

℟. Let your loins be girded about, and your lights burning; * And ye yourselves like unto men that wait for their lord, when he will return from the wedding.
℣. Watch therefore, for ye know not what hour your Lord doth come.
℟. And ye yourselves like unto men that wait for their lord, when he will return from the wedding.
℣. Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, * and to the Holy Ghost.
℟. And ye yourselves like unto men that wait for their lord, when he will return from the wedding.

Lesson IX
And here we may also understand by the ten pounds the ten words, that is, the Commandments, and by the five pounds, the enforcement of their teaching. But I would that a lawyer should be in all things perfect. For the kingdom of God is not in word but in power. (1 Cor. iv. 20.) Meet also is it, that, in speaking of Jews, Christ should represent only two as bringing in increased capital, for these talents are talents not of money but of grace, and to increase money by usury is a very different thing from improving heavenly revelation by the like means.

[Te Deum follows]
