The Nativity of the Blessed Virgin Mary
Duplex II classis cum Octava simplici
[Sancti/09-08]

Lesson IX: of St. Adrian, Martyr (09-08cc).

Lesson I
Lesson from the book of Canticles
Song 1:1-4
Let him kiss me with the kiss of his mouth: for thy breasts are better than wine, Smelling sweet of the best ointments. thy name is as oil poured out: therefore young maidens have loved thee. Draw me: we will run after thee to the odour of thy ointments. The king hath brought me into his storerooms: we will be glad and rejoice in thee, remembering thy breasts more than wine: the righteous love thee. I am black but beautiful, O ye daughters of Jerusalem, as the tents of Cedar, as the curtains of Solomon.

℟. This day was the Blessed Virgin Mary born of the lineage of David. * The same is she through whom the salvation of the world hath been manifested before the eyes of all believers. This is she whose glorious life hath given light to the world.
℣. Let us keep with rejoicing the Birthday of the Blessed Virgin Mary.
℟. The same is she through whom the salvation of the world hath been manifested before the eyes of all believers. This is she whose glorious life hath given light to the world.

Lesson II
Song 1:5-9
Do not consider me that I am brown, because the sun hath altered my colour: the sons of my mother have fought against me, they have made me the keeper in the vineyards: my vineyard I have not kept. show me, O thou whom my soul loveth, where thou feedest, where thou liest in the midday, lest I begin to wander after the flocks of thy companions. If thou know not thyself, O fairest among women, go forth, and follow after the steps of the flocks, and feed thy kids beside the tents of the shepherds. To my company of horsemen, in Pharao's chariots, have I likened thee, O my love. thy cheeks are beautiful as the turtledove's, thy neck as jewels.

℟. Let us keep right heartily the Birthday of the Most Blessed Virgin Mary, * That she may pray for us to our Lord Jesus Christ.
℣. Let us keep with right hearty rejoicing the Birthday of the Blessed Virgin Mary.
℟. That she may pray for us to our Lord Jesus Christ.

Lesson III
Song 1:10-16
We will make thee chains of gold, inlaid with silver. While the king was at his repose, my spikenard sent forth the odour thereof. A bundle of myrrh is my beloved to me, he shall abide between my breasts. A cluster of cypress my love is to me, in the vineyards of Engaddi. Behold thou art fair, O my love, behold thou art fair, thy eyes are as those of doves. Behold thou art fair, my beloved, and comely. Our bed is flourishing. The beams of our houses are of cedar, our rafters of cypress trees.

℟. Let us tell again of the right worthy Birth of the Blessed Virgin Mary. * The same is she whose lowliness the Lord regarded, she who by the message of an Angel conceived the Saviour of the world.
℣. Let us keep right earnestly the Birthday of the most Blessed Virgin Mary.
℟. The same is she whose lowliness the Lord regarded, she who by the message of an Angel conceived the Saviour of the world.
℣. Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, * and to the Holy Ghost.
℟. The same is she whose lowliness the Lord regarded, she who by the message of an Angel conceived the Saviour of the world.

Lesson IV
From the Sermons of St. Augustine, Bishop (of Hippo.)
18th on the Saints.
Dearly beloved brethren, the day for which we have longed, the Feast-day of the Blessed and Worshipful and Ever-Virgin Mary, that day is come. Let our land laugh and sing with merriment, bathed in the glory of this great Virgin's rising. She is the flower of the fields on which the priceless lily of the valleys hath blossomed. This is she whose delivery changed the nature that we draw from our first parents, and cleansed away their offence. At her that dolorous sentence which was pronounced over Eve ended its course to her it was never said: “In sorrow thou shalt bring forth children.” (Gen. iii. 16.) She brought forth a Child, even the Lord, but she brought Him forth, not in sorrow, but in joy.

℟. This day was born the glorious Virgin Mary, a child of the seed of Abraham, a daughter of the tribe of Judah, a Princess of the lineage of David. * This is she whose famous life still sheddeth lustre upon all the Churches.
℣. This day was the Blessed Virgin Mary born of the lineage of David.
℟. This is she whose famous life still sheddeth lustre upon all the Churches.

Lesson V
Eve wept, but Mary laughed. Eve's womb was big with tears, but Mary's womb was big with gladness. Eve gave birth to a sinner, but Mary gave birth to the sinless One. The mother of our race brought punishment into the world, but the Mother of our Lord brought salvation into the world. Eve was the foundress of sin, but Mary was the foundress of righteousness. Eve welcomed death, but Mary helped in life. Eve smote, but Mary healed. For Eve's disobedience, Mary offered obedience and for Eve's unbelief, Mary offered faith.

℟. Let us keep with rejoicing the Birthday of the Blessed Mary, * That she may pray for us to our Lord Jesus Christ.
℣. With all our heart and with all our soul let us sing praise to Christ on this the solemn Feastday of Mary the mighty Mother of God.
℟. That she may pray for us to our Lord Jesus Christ.

Lesson VI
Let Mary now make a loud noise upon the organ, and between its quick notes let the rattling of the Mother's timbrel be heard. Let the gladsome choirs sing with her, and their sweet hymns mingle with the changing music. Hearken to what a song her timbrel will make accompaniment. She saith: “My soul doth magnify the Lord, and my spirit hath rejoiced in God my Saviour. For He hath regarded the lowliness of His hand-maiden, for, behold, from henceforth all generations shall call me blessed for He That is Mighty hath done to me great things.” The new miracle of Mary's delivery hath effaced the curse of the frail backslider, and the singing of Mary hath silenced the wailing of Eve.

℟. Thy Birth, O Virgin Mother of God, was a message of joy to the whole world; * For out of thee rose the Sun of righteousness, even Christ our God, Who hath taken away the curse and brought a blessing, confounded death, and given unto us everlasting life.
℣. Blessed art thou among women, and blessed is the Fruit of thy womb.
℟. For out of thee rose the Sun of righteousness, even Christ our God.
℣. Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, * and to the Holy Ghost.
℟. Who hath taken away the curse and brought a blessing, confounded death, and given unto us everlasting life.

Lesson VII
From the Holy Gospel according to Matthew
Matt 1:1-17
The Book of the generation of Jesus Christ, the Son of David, the son of Abraham. Abraham begat Isaac, and Isaac begat Jacob. And so on.

Homily by St. Jerome, Priest (at Bethlehem)
Bk. i, Comm. on Matth.
In Isaiah (liii. 8) we read: “Who shall declare His generation?” Let us not think that there is any contradiction between the Prophet and the Evangelist, because the Prophet saith that this thing cannot be done, and the Evangelist beginneth by doing it. The one speaketh of the generation of the Divine (Word by the Eternal Father,) the other of the (family in which the) Incarnation (took place.) Matthew beginneth with carnal things, that by learning of men we may go on to learn of God. “The Son of David, the son of Abraham.” The reversal of the order in these clauses is a needful change. If Abraham had been put first and David afterwards, Abraham would have had to be taken again, in order to marshal the pedigree properly.

℟. All generations shall call me blessed, * For the Lord that is mighty hath magnified me, and holy is his Name.
℣. And his mercy is on them that fear him throughout all generations.
℟. For the Lord that is mighty hath magnified me, and holy is his Name.

Lesson VIII
Matthew first calleth Christ the Son of these twain Abraham and David without making mention of the others, because unto these twain only was promise of Christ made unto Abraham, where it is said: “In thy seed” (that is, in Christ) “shall all the nations of the earth be blessed,” (Gen. xxii. 18) and unto David, in the words “Of the fruit of thy body will I set upon thy throne.” (Ps. cxxxi, 11) “And Judas begat Phares and Zara of Thamar.” It is to be remarked that in the genealogy of the Saviour none of the holy women are named, but those women only are named against whom the Scripture hath to say something amiss. He Who came to save sinners was born of sinners, that He might wash away all sin. Afterwards are named Ruth, who was a Moabitess, and Bathsheba, who had been the wife of Uriah.

℟. O Holy Virgin Mary, happy indeed art thou, and right worthy of all praise * For out of thee rose the Sun of righteousness, * Even Christ our God.
℣. Pray for the people, plead for the clergy, make intercession for all women vowed to God. May all that are keeping this day in honour of thy Nativity feel the might of thine assistance.
℟. For out of thee rose the Sun of righteousness, even Christ our God.
℣. Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, * and to the Holy Ghost.
℟. Even Christ our God.
