Sts. Cornelius, Pope and Cyprian, Bishop, Martyrs
Semiduplex
[Sancti/09-16]

Lessons I–III: from the Scripture of the day.
Lessons VII–VIII: from the Commune Plurimorum Martyrum Pontificum (C3).
Lesson IX: of Ss. Euphemia, Lucy and Geminian, Martyrs (09-16cc).

Lesson IV
Cornelius was a Roman who held the Papacy during the reign of the Emperors Gallus and Volusian. He, and that most holy Lady Lucina, took the bodies of the Apostles Peter and Paul out of the Catacombs and put them in more convenient places. Lucina laid the body of Paul in a farm of her own upon the road to Ostia, hard by the place where he had received the sword-stroke. Cornelius placed that of the Prince of the Apostles hard by where he had been crucified. When this was told to the Emperors, and likewise that Cornelius was the means of making many Christians, he was banished to Civitavecchia, where Cyprian, the holy Bishop of Carthage, comforted him by letters.

℟. thy Saints, O Lord, have passed a wonderful way, serving thy commandments, that they might be found without hurt in the midst of the mighty waters. * Dry land appeared, and, out of the Red Sea, a way without impediment.
℣. He smote the rock, and the waters gushed out, and the streams overflowed.
℟. Dry land appeared, and, out of the Red Sea, a way without impediment.

Lesson V
They continued thus to write often one to the other, till the Emperors took in bad part these exchanges of Christian love, and sent for Cornelius to Rome. There they commanded him to be lashed with scourges loaded with lead as though he were a traitor, and then to be carried to offer sacrifice before the image of Mars. He firmly refused to commit this great wickedness, and was forthwith beheaded, upon the 14th day of September, (in the year of our Lord 252.) The blessed Lucina, with the help of the clergy, buried his body in the sand-pit on her own farm, near the Cemetery of Callistus. He lived as Pope about two years.

℟. The Saints of God shrank not from the stripes of the executioners, but died for Christ's Name's sake * That they might be made joint-heirs in the house of the Lord.
℣. They gave their bodies for God's sake to death.
℟. That they might be made joint-heirs in the house of the Lord.

Lesson VI
Cypriam was an African. He was first distinguished as a teacher of Rhetoric. He afterwards became a Christian at the persuasion of the Priest Caecilius, whose surname he took, and parted all his goods among the poor. It was not long before he was chosen a Priest, and then made Bishop of Carthage. It would be idle to enlarge upon his, wit, seeing that his works are as well known as the sun. He suffered under the Emperors Valerian and Gallienus, in the eighth persecution, and upon the same day, though not in the same year, that Cornelius testified at Rome.

℟. As gold in the furnace hath the Lord tried His chosen ones, and received them as a burnt-offering, and yet a while, and they shall be regarded; * For the grace of God, and His peace, are with His chosen.
℣. They that put their trust in Him shall understand the truth and such as be faithful in love shall abide with Him.
℟. For the grace of God, and His peace, are with His chosen.
℣. Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, * and to the Holy Ghost.
℟. For the grace of God, and His peace, are with His chosen.
