The Seven Sorrows of the Blessed Virgin Mary
Duplex II classis
[Sancti/09-15]

Lesson IX: of St. Nicomedes, Martyr (09-15cc).

Lesson I
Lesson from the book of Lamentations
Lam 1:2; 1:20-21
Weeping she hath wept in the night, and her tears are on her cheeks: there is none to comfort her among all them that were dear to her: all her friends have despised her, and are become her enemies. Behold, O Lord, for I am in distress, my bowels are troubled: my heart is turned within me, for I am full of bitterness: abroad the sword destroyeth, and at home there is death alike. They have heard that I sigh, and there is none to comfort me.

℟. There was a man whose name was Simeon; and the same man was just and devout; and he said unto Mary * Yea, a sword shall pierce through thine own soul also.
℣. Call me not My-pleasantness, but call me Embittered, for the Almighty hath dealt very bitterly with me.
℟. Yea, a sword shall pierce through thine own soul also.

Lesson II
Lam 2:13, 15-16
To what shall I compare thee? or to what shall I liken thee, O daughter of Jerusalem? to what shall I equal thee, that I may comfort thee, O virgin daughter of Sion? for great as the sea is thy destruction: who shall heal thee? All they that passed by the way have clapped their hands at thee: they have hissed, and wagged their heads at the daughter of Jerusalem, saying: Is this the city of perfect beauty, the joy of all the earth? All thy enemies have opened their mouth against thee: they have hissed, and gnashed with the teeth, and have said: We will swallow her up.

℟. Arise, and take the young Child and His Mother, and flee into Egypt; * And be thou there until I bring thee word.
℣. Out of Egypt have I called My Son, that salvation may come unto Israel.
℟. And be thou there until I bring thee word.

Lesson III
Lam 2:17-18
The Lord hath done that which he purposed, he hath fulfilled his word, which he commanded in the days of old: he hath destroyed, and hath not spared, and he hath caused the enemy to rejoice over thee, and hath set up the horn of thy adversaries. Their heart cried to the Lord upon the walls of the daughter of Sion: Let tears run down like a torrent day and night: give thyself no rest, and let not the apple of thy eye cease.

℟. Son, why hast Thou thus dealt with us? * I and thy father have sought thee sorrowing.
℣. How is it that ye sought Me? Wist ye not that I must be about My Father's business?
℟. I and thy Father
℣. Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, * and to the Holy Ghost.
℟. Have sought thee sorrowing.

Lesson IV
From the Sermons of St. Bernard, Abbot (of Clairvaux.)
On the twelve stars
The Martyrdom of the Virgin is set before us, not only in the prophecy of Simeon, but also in the story itself of the Lord's Passion. The holy old man said of the Child Jesus (Luke ii. 34,) Behold, this Child is set for the fall and the rising again of many in Israel; and for a sign which shall be spoken against; yea, said he unto Mary, a sword shall pierce through thine own soul also Even so, O Blessed Mother! The sword did indeed pierce through thy soul! for nought could pierce the Body of thy Son, nor pierce thy soul likewise. Yea, and when this Jesus of thine had given up the ghost, and the bloody spear could torture Him no more, thy soul winced as it pierced His dead Side His Own Soul might leave Him, but thine could not.

℟. Jesus bearing His Cross, went forth. * And there followed Him a company of women, which bewailed and lamented Him.
℣. Daughters of Jerusalem, weep for yourselves and for your children.
℟. There followed Him a company of women, which bewailed and lamented Him.

Lesson V
The sword of sorrow pierced through thy soul, so that we may truly call thee more than martyr, in whom the love, that made thee suffer along with thy Son, wrung thy heart more bitterly than any pang of bodily pain could do. Did not that word of His indeed pierce through thy soul, sharper than any two-edged sword, even to the dividing asunder of soul and spirit, (Heb. iv. 12,) Woman, behold thy son! (John xix. 26.) O what a change to thee! Thou art given John for Jesus, the servant for his Lord, the disciple for his master, the son of Zebedee for the Son of God, a mere man for Very God. O how keenly must the hearing of those words have pierced through thy most loving soul, when even our hearts, stony, iron, as they are, are wrung at the memory thereof only!

℟. And when they were come to the place which is called Calvary, there they crucified Him. * Now there stood by the Cross of Jesus His Mother.
℣. Then was it that a sword of sorrow pierced through her blessed soul.
℟. There stood by the Cross of Jesus His Mother.

Lesson VI
Marvel not, my brethren, that Mary should be called a Martyr in spirit. He indeed may marvel who remembereth not what Paul saith, naming the greater sins of the Gentiles, that they were without natural affection, (Rom. i. 31.) Far other were the bowels of Mary, and far other may those of her servants be! But some man perchance will say Did she not know that He was to die? Yea, without doubt, she knew it. Did she not hope that He was soon to rise again? Yea, she most faithfully hoped it. And did she still mourn because He was crucified? Yea, bitterly. But who art thou, my brother, or whence hast thou such wisdom, to marvel less that the Son of Mary suffered than that Mary suffered with Him? He could die in the Body, and could not she die with Him in her heart? His was the deed of that Love, greater than which hath no man (John xv. 13;) hers, of a love, like to which hath no man, save He.

℟. Joseph of Arimathaea * And His Mother received It into her arms.
℣. The Shunamite took her dead son, and laid him on her knees; and her soul was vexed within her.
℟. He begged the Body of Jesus, and he took It down from the Cross.
℣. Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, * and to the Holy Ghost.
℟. And His Mother received It into her arms.

Lesson VII
From the Holy Gospel according to John
John 19:25-27
At that time: There stood by the Cross of Jesus His Mother, and His Mother's sister, Mary (the wife) of Cleophas, and Mary Magdalene. And so on.

Homily by St. Ambrose, (Bishop of Milan.)
On Virgins, 7
There stood by the Cross His Mother. Men had forsaken Him, but she stood there fearless. Behold how the Mother of Jesus could break through her shrinking modesty, but could not belie her heart. With the eyes of a mother's love she gazed upon the Wounds of her Son, those Wounds through Which she knew that redemption for all mankind was flowing. The Mother, who feared not the executioners, was able to endure the sight of their work. Her Son was hanging upon the Cross, and she braved His tormentors.

℟. O what a sickening at heart was thine, thou Mother of sorrows * When Joseph wrapped thy Son in linen and laid Him in the sepulchre?
℣. Behold, and see if there be any sorrow like unto my sorrow.
℟. When Joseph wrapped thy Son in linen and laid Him in the sepulchre.

Lesson VIII
From the same 25th Epistle to the Church of Vercelli
Mary, the Mother of the Lord, stood by the Cross of her Son. My only informant of this fact is the holy Evangelist John. Others have written that when the Lord suffered, the earth quaked, the heavens were veiled in darkness, the sun was hidden, and the thief received, after a good confession, the promise of Paradise. John hath taught us what the others have not taught us. Upon the Cross He called her Mother. It is reckoned (by John) a greater thing that in the moment of triumph over agony, He should have discharged the watchful duty of a Son to His Mother, than that He should have made gift of the kingdom of heaven. For if it be a sacred thing to have forgiven the thief, this so great kindness of the Son to the Mother is to be worshipped as the outcome of a tenderer and more touching love.

℟. Forget not the sorrows of thy mother with thine whole heart, * That thine offering and thy blessing may be perfected.
℣. Hail, O maid of Royal birth, Noblest martyr-rose of earth, lily of virginity.
℟. That thine offering and thy blessing may be perfected.
℣. Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, * and to the Holy Ghost.
℟. That thine offering and thy blessing may be perfected.
