S. Eustachius and Companions, Martyrs
Duplex
[Sancti/09-20]

Lessons I–III: from the Scripture of the day.
Lesson IX: of In Vigilia S. Matthew Apostle (09-20o).

Lesson IV
Eustache, whose name before his Baptism was Placidus was a Roman, alike well-known on account of his noble birth, his great earthly wealth, and his eminent distinction as a soldier. He gained, under the Emperor Trajan, the post of military commander. Once upon a time he was hunting, and following an extraordinarily large stag, when the beast stood still, and Eustace saw between his horns a tall and glorious figure of the Lord Christ hanging upon the Cross, whence came a voice bidding him to follow after life eternal. Thereupon Eustace and his wife Theopista, and their two little sons Agapitus and Theopistus, enlisted themselves as soldiers under the Great Captain, Christ.

℟. thy Saints, O Lord, have passed a wonderful way, serving thy commandments, that they might be found without hurt in the midst of the mighty waters. * Dry land appeared, and, out of the Red Sea, a way without impediment.
℣. He smote the rock, and the waters gushed out, and the streams overflowed.
℟. Dry land appeared, and, out of the Red Sea, a way without impediment.

Lesson V
In a little while he went back, according as the Lord had commanded him, to the place where he had seen the first vision, and there he heard from God how much he was to bear for His glory. It was not long after that he had great losses and became exceedingly poor, but he bore it very patiently. Then he was constrained to fly away privily, and on the journey was grievously afflicted in that, first, his wife and then his children were parted from him and carried he knew not whither. Under the weight of these sorrows he lay hid a long while in a far-off place, working as the steward of a land -owner, until the voice of God called him forth, and Trajan sought for him again to make him a captain in his army.

℟. The Saints of God shrank not from the stripes of the executioners, but died for Christ's Name's sake * That they might be made joint-heirs in the house of the Lord.
℣. They gave their bodies for God's sake to death.
℟. That they might be made joint-heirs in the house of the Lord.

Lesson VI
While he was with the army he found his wife and children once more, by an unexpected happiness, and re-entered the city (of Rome) as a conquering soldier amid the loud applause of all men, but thereupon, when he was commanded to offer sacrifices of thanksgiving for the victory to the gods that are no gods, he stoutly refused. They tried him in vain with diverse cajoleries to make him deny Christ, but could not, and he and his wife and little ones were thrown to the lions. When these beasts would not touch them, the Emperor's fury was kindled, and he commanded them all to be shut up in the brazen image of a bull, which was heated with fire underneath. There they praised God until their testimony was ended, and they departed hence to be perfectly blessed for ever and ever, upon the 20th day of September. Their bodies were buried whole by the faithful, with deep reverence, and were afterwards honourably carried to a Church built in their name.

℟. As gold in the furnace hath the Lord tried His chosen ones, and received them as a burnt-offering, and yet a while, and they shall be regarded; * For the grace of God, and His peace, are with His chosen.
℣. They that put their trust in Him shall understand the truth and such as be faithful in love shall abide with Him.
℟. For the grace of God, and His peace, are with His chosen.
℣. Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, * and to the Holy Ghost.
℟. For the grace of God, and His peace, are with His chosen.

Lesson VII
From the Holy Gospel according to Luke
Luke 6:17-23
At that time, Jesus came down from the mountain, and stood in the plain, and the company of His disciples, and a great multitude of people out of all Judea, and Jerusalem, and from the sea coast of Tyre and Sidon. And so on.

Homily by St Ambrose, Bishop (of Milan.)
Bk. v. on Luke vi.
Mark well how Jesus goeth upward with His disciples, and downward to the multitude. How should the multitude behold Christ, save in a lower place? Such go not up to the things which are above; such attain not to the things which are high. And when Jesus cometh down, He findeth such as are diseased for such like go not up to the heights. Hence also Matthew saith that there were there all sick people, (iv. 23.) Of these every man had need of healing, that, when he had received strength, by and by, he might go up into the mountain. And therefore, being Himself come down, He healeth them in the plain, that is to say, He calleth them away from their lust, and freeth them of their blindness. He cometh down to our wounds, to the end that by a certain use of His nature, and by the abundance thereof, He might make us joint-heirs of the kingdom of heaven.

℟. Because of the covenant of the Lord, and the laws of their fathers, the Saints of God abode in brotherly love, * For one spirit and one faith was ever in them.
℣. Behold how good and how pleasant it is for brethren to dwell together in unity.
℟. For one spirit and one faith was ever in them.

Lesson VIII
Blessed be ye poor, for your's is the kingdom of God. Saint Luke giveth us but four of the Lord's Beatitudes, and Saint Matthew eight but in those eight are contained these four, and in these four those eight. For in these four are embraced the cardinal virtues and in those eight they are set forth in a number full of mystery. It is written at the head of more than one of the Psalms that they are for the octave, and thou hast received the commandment Give a portion to seven, and also to eight to seven or eight what? Perchance degrees of blessedness. For as this eighth Beatitude doth name the most glorious realization of our hope the kingdom of Heaven so doth it also name the most royal exertion of our strength blessed are they which are persecuted.

℟. O ye My Saints, who, being in the flesh, didst have striving * I will render unto you a reward of your labours.
℣. Come, ye blessed of My Father, inherit the kingdom
℟. I will render unto you a reward of your labours.
℣. Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, * and to the Holy Ghost.
℟. I will render unto you a reward of your labours.
