St. John Leonard, Confessor
Duplex
[Sancti/10-09]

Lessons I–III: from the Scripture of the day.
Lesson IX: of Sts. Denis, Bishop, Rusticus et Eleutherius, Martyrs (10-09t).

Lesson IV
John Leonard was born of pious and respectable parents in the town of Diecimo, not far from the city of Lucca. From very early boyhood he shewed himself mature and serious, with an inclination to solitude and prayer. When he was twenty-six years old God called him to enlist among the soldiers of the Church. John renounced immediately all his worldly interests. At first he had to study elementary Latin with little boys, but he soon advanced in a knowledge of literature, philosophy and theology. After a scant four years, at the command of his superior, he was ordained to the priesthood. Soon afterward he and a group of noble youths, alike inflamed with high ideals, earnestly set about attaining perfection in virtue. The following year they formed the Congregation of the Clerks Regular of the Mother of God, a name chosen because of their intense devotion to her. John and his companions laboured with such diligence in their care of souls, that before long a change of attitude was brought about. In the city state of Lucca, where through the perfidious wiles of the heretics, hateful passion turned fiercely among the citizens, where morals were corrupted, in a very short space of time the primitive piety of the Christians seemed to revive.

℟. The Lord made him honourable, and defended him from his enemies, and kept him safe from those that lay in wait for him; * And gave him perpetual glory.
℣. He went down with him into the pit, and left him not in bonds.
℟. And gave him perpetual glory.

Lesson V
In his work for the salvation of souls John met most bitter insults from wicked men who tried in every way to destroy the newly gathered family. But the man of God, bearing all things cheerfully and serenely, defended pertinaciously the fruit of his apostolic labours by securing from the Supreme Pontiff, Gregory XIII, papal approbation of his Congregation. Many bishops about to undertake difficult enterprises sought his advice and aid. Even the Holy Father delegated to him the solution of intricate litigation and the reform of religious societies. He stood in support of Saint Joseph Calasanctius when his society was on the verge of collapse. Scarcely less arduous were the hours John devoted to the affairs of the Hospital of the Holy Spirit in the English section of Rome, and to those of the convent of Saint Frances of Rome.

℟. The Lord loved him and beautified him; He clothed him with a robe of glory, * And crowned him at the gates of Paradise.
℣. The Lord hath put on him the breast-plate of faith, and hath adorned him.
℟. And crowned him at the gates of Paradise.

Lesson VI
Greatly saddened that so many peoples in far distant places were without the light of the Gospel, John burned with a desire to journey to those countries to spread the light of the true Faith. But when Saint Philip Neri, who called John a true reformer, showed him that he and his Congregation were destined to educate the Italian people, John acquiesced to the will of God. He did not, however, refrain so completely that he did not try to do some work for the infidels. He is therefore, very rightly credited along with the pioneer Vives with being the founder of the movement among the bishops to send well-qualified young men to distant, alien lands to propagate the faith. Wherefore he is very properly regarded as the author of that most illustrious institute which augments the work of the Sovereign Pontiffs and serves to spread the Catholic faith throughout the world. John wrote many works on theology and morality, well adapted to the men of that day. Finally, in sackcloth and ashes, lacking nothing in his sacred ministry, he passed to the Lord in Rome on the 9th day of October, 1609, at the age of sixty-six. He was so famous for sanctity and miracles that Pius IX, the Supreme Pontiff, named him on the calendar of the Blessed. In 1938 on the solemn Feast of Easter, Pius XI enrolled him among the Saints.

℟. This is he which did according unto all that God commanded him; and God said unto him: Enter thou into My rest, * For thee have I seen righteous before Me among all people.
℣. This is he which loved not his life in this world, and is come unto an everlasting kingdom.
℟. For thee have I seen righteous before Me among all people.
℣. Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, * and to the Holy Ghost.
℟. For thee have I seen righteous before Me among all people.

Lesson VII
From the Holy Gospel according to Luke
Luke 10:1-9
At that time, the Lord appointed other seventy-two also, and sent them two and two before His face into every city and place, whither He Himself would come. And so on.

Homily by Pope St. Gregory (the Great.)
17th Homily on the Gospels
Dearly beloved brethren, our Lord and Saviour doth sometimes admonish us by words, and sometimes by works. Yea, His very works do themselves teach us for that which He doth silently His example still moveth us to copy. Behold how He sendeth forth His disciples to preach by two and two since there are two commandments to love, that is, a commandment to love God, and a commandment to love our neighbour and where there are not two, the one, being alone, hath not whereon to do the Lord's commandment. And no man can properly be said to love himself: for love tendeth outward toward our neighbour, if it be the love whereto the Gospel doth oblige us.

℟. This is he which wrought great wonders before God, and praised the Lord with all his heart. * May he pray for all people, that their sins may be forgiven unto them.
℣. Behold a man without blame, a worshipper of God in truth, keeping himself clean from every evil work, and abiding still in his innocency.
℟. May he pray for all people, that their sins may be forgiven unto them.

Lesson VIII
Behold, the Lord sendeth forth His disciples to preach by two and two and thus doing, He doth silently teach us that whosoever loveth not his neighbour, such a one it behoveth not to take upon him the office of a preacher. Well also is it said that He sent them before His face into every city and place whither He Himself would come. The Lord followeth His preachers first cometh preaching, and then the Lord Himself cometh to the house of our mind, whither the word of exhortation hath come before and so cometh the truth into our mind.

℟. Let your loins be girded about, and your lights burning; * And ye yourselves like unto men that wait for their lord, when he will return from the wedding.
℣. Watch therefore, for ye know not what hour your Lord doth come.
℟. And ye yourselves like unto men that wait for their lord, when he will return from the wedding.
℣. Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, * and to the Holy Ghost.
℟. And ye yourselves like unto men that wait for their lord, when he will return from the wedding.
