St. Birgitta, Widow
Duplex
[Sancti/10-08]

Lessons I–III: from the Scripture of the day.
Lessons VII–IX: from the Common of Widows (C7a).

Lesson IV
Bridget was the daughter of princely and godly parents, and was born in Sweden, ~(in the year of our Lord 1304.) Her life was a very holy one. When she was still in the womb, her mother was for her sake saved from shipwreck. When she was ten years old, she heard a sermon upon the sufferings of the Lord, and the following night she saw Jesus on the Cross, covered with fresh Blood, and heard Him speaking to her of His same sufferings. From that time forth the thought of them touched her so keenly, that she could never again call them to mind without weeping.

℟. Because of truth, and meekness, and righteousness; * And thy right hand shall lead thee wonderfully.
℣. In thy comeliness, and thy beauty, go forward, fare prosperously, and reign.
℟. And thy right hand shall lead thee wonderfully.

Lesson V
When she was sixteen years of age she was given in marriage to Ulpho, Prince of Nericia. She moved her husband to godly works, as well by her noble example as by her earnest words. She expended the most motherly care upon the up-bringing of her children. She opened an hospital, in which she carefully tended the poor, especially the sick, and would wash and kiss their feet. She made a pilgrimage with her husband to Compostella, to visit the grave of the holy Apostle James. On their way back Ulpho fell grievously sick at Arras, and St. Denys appeared in the night to Bridget, to tell her as well that her husband would be healed, as diverse other things to come.

℟. Thou hast loved righteousness, and hated iniquity; * Therefore God, thy God, hath anointed thee with the oil of gladness.
℣. Because of truth, and meekness, and righteousness.
℟. Therefore God, thy God, hath anointed thee with the oil of gladness.

Lesson VI
(In the year 1344) her husband died, after having become a Cistercian monk. Bridget, having heard the voice of Christ in a dream, took upon herself an harder way of life. During her life God made known to her many hidden things. She founded the monastery of Wastein, under the Rule of the Holy Saviour, a Rule which she had received from the Lord Himself. By the command of God she went to Rome, where she stirred up many by her example to seek the love of God. Thence she went to Jerusalem, and then returned again to Rome. From this pilgrimage she caught a fever, of which she lay sick an whole year in sharp sufferings, and then, laden with good works, and after foretelling the day of her own death, she departed from earth to heaven, (upon the 23rd day of July, in the year 1373.) Her body was taken to the monastery of Wastein. She was famous for miracles, and Boniface IX enrolled her name among those of the Saints.

℟. Favour is deceitful, and beauty is vain * A woman that feareth God she shall be praised.
℣. Give her of the fruit of her hands, and let her own works praise her in the gates.
℟. A woman that feareth God she shall be praised.
℣. Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, * and to the Holy Ghost.
℟. A woman that feareth God she shall be praised.
