St. Francis of Assisi, Confessor
Duplex majus
[Sancti/10-04]

Lessons I–III: from the Scripture of the day.

Lesson IV
Francis was born at Assisi in Umbria, (in the year of our Lord 11 82.) From his early youth he followed the example of his father, (Peter Bernardone,) and busied himself with merchandise. It befell one day that, contrary to his usage, he had thrust from him a beggar, who cried for money for Christ's sake, when, being cut to the heart with regret, he gave him large alms, and promised to God from that day forth never to deny to any that asked of him. He fell after this into a grievous sickness, and from the time that he was healed thereof, he gave himself more earnestly to works of love for his neighbour. At length he became fain in this sort to be perfect, even as the Lord hath said in the Gospel, ~(Matth. xix. 21,) and gave to the poor whatsoever he had. His father would not have it so, and brought him before the Bishop of Assisi, that he might renounce all right to any inheritance. He cheerfully gave up all to his father, even to his clothes, telling them that now he should be able with more utter dependence to say Our Father, Who art in heaven.

℟. The Lord made him honourable, and defended him from his enemies, and kept him safe from those that lay in wait for him; * And gave him perpetual glory.
℣. He went down with him into the pit, and left him not in bonds.
℟. And gave him perpetual glory.

Lesson V
Upon the 24th day of February, in the year 1209,) he heard read the words of the Gospel Provide neither gold, nor silver, nor brass in your purses, nor scrip for your journey, neither two coats, neither shoes. (Matth. x. 9, 10.) Thereupon he determined that that should be his rule of living. He took off his shoes, and contented himself with one coat. When he had gathered twelve comrades, he founded the Order of Friars Minor. He went to Rome in the (same) year, to get from the Apostolic See a confirmation of his Order. When he came Pope Innocent III. thrust him away. Thereafter he dreamt that he saw the Church of the most Holy Saviour falling, and whom he had cast forth bearing it up with his shoulders. He bade therefore that he should be sought for and brought again before him, welcomed him kindly, and approved all the Rule which he had established. Francis therefore sent his Friars into all quarters of the world to preach the Gospel of Christ. He himself was fain to find some occasion of martyrdom, and therefore made a voyage into Syria, (in the year 1219,) but the Sultan treated him with the greatest kindness, offering him many gifts, and, since he could do no good, he returned again to Italy.

℟. The Lord loved him and beautified him; He clothed him with a robe of glory, * And crowned him at the gates of Paradise.
℣. The Lord hath put on him the breast-plate of faith, and hath adorned him.
℟. And crowned him at the gates of Paradise.

Lesson VI
Towards the Feast of the Assumption of the Blessed Virgin Mary, (in the year 1224), when there had already been built many houses of Friars of his Order, he withdrew himself into a most secret place upon Mount Alverno, and began to fast for forty days in honour of the holy Archangel Michael. Upon the Feast-day of the Uplifting of the Holy Cross, (as he was praying upon the side of the mountain,) he saw a vision of a crucified Seraph, which left in his hands and feet holes with nails therein, and in his side a great wound. Holy BuonaVentura hath left it in writing that he once heard Pope Alexander IV., when preaching, testify that he had himself seen these marks. It was a sign of such love of Christ toward him as stirred up the great wonder of all men. Two years thereafter he fell sick unto death, and was fain to be carried into the Church of St. Mary-of-the-Angels, that he might give up the breath of life in the same place where God had breathed into him the breath of the life of grace. Being there (laid on the earth, sprinkled with ashes, and covered with an old habit,) he exhorted the Friars to be poor and lowly, and to cleave to the faith of the Holy Church of Rome. (He then caused the Gospel of St. John to be read from the words Now before the feast of the Passover to the end,) after which he began to recite the 141st Psalm: I cried unto the Lord with my voice, and in uttering the words, the righteous wait for me, till Thou deal bountifully with me, he gave up the ghost. It was the 4th day of October, (in the year 1226.) He was famous for miracles, and Pope Gregory IX. added his name to the list of the Saints.

℟. This is he which did according unto all that God commanded him; and God said unto him: Enter thou into My rest, * For thee have I seen righteous before Me among all people.
℣. This is he which loved not his life in this world, and is come unto an everlasting kingdom.
℟. For thee have I seen righteous before Me among all people.
℣. Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, * and to the Holy Ghost.
℟. For thee have I seen righteous before Me among all people.

Lesson VII
From the holy Gospel according to Matthew
Matt 11:25-30
At that time, Jesus answered and said: I confess to thee, O Father, Lord of heaven and earth, because thou hast hid these things from the wise and prudent, and hast revealed them to the little ones. And so on.

Homily by St. Augustine, Bishop (of Hippo.)
10th Sermon on the Words of the Lord
Come unto Me, all ye that labour! And wherefore labour we all, but because we are frail, sickly, dying creatures, burdened with earthen vessels which distress us? But if these fleshly vessels be distressful, let the open expanse of love be free and wide. Come unto Me, all ye that labour! and why? That we may labour no more. His promise is an instant promise, for He calleth such as are labouring. Perchance they will ask Him what shall be their reward? And I, saith He, will give you rest. Take My yoke upon you, and learn of me not how to make the world, not how to create all things visible and invisible, not to work wonders in the earth, nor to raise the dead but for I am meek and lowly in heart.

℟. This is he which wrought great wonders before God, and praised the Lord with all his heart. * May he pray for all people, that their sins may be forgiven unto them.
℣. Behold a man without blame, a worshipper of God in truth, keeping himself clean from every evil work, and abiding still in his innocency.
℟. May he pray for all people, that their sins may be forgiven unto them.

Lesson VIII
Wilt thou be great? Begin by being little. Dost thou think to raise up a lofty building? Then lay the foundations thereof in lowliness. The greater soever, and the more massy, be that which any man thinketh to build, so much the deeper doth he dig his foundation. And when the house is built, it towereth heavenward; but he which layeth the foundation goeth down into the earth. The building, therefore, is low before it is high, and, after it is low, it riseth high to the roof.

℟. Let your loins be girded about, and your lights burning; * And ye yourselves like unto men that wait for their lord, when he will return from the wedding.
℣. Watch therefore, for ye know not what hour your Lord doth come.
℟. And ye yourselves like unto men that wait for their lord, when he will return from the wedding.
℣. Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, * and to the Holy Ghost.
℟. And ye yourselves like unto men that wait for their lord, when he will return from the wedding.

Lesson IX
What is the roof of the house on which we labour? Whither do its spires rise? I answer you at once; to the presence of God. You see how high it is, yea, what it is to see God. He that will, understandeth what I say, and he heareth. What is promised you is to see God, God, the True, God, the Supreme. Blessed is he who seeth Him by Whom he is seen. Such as worship false gods see them easily, but they see them who have eyes and see not. But unto us it is promised that we shall see that God Who liveth and seeth. (Gen. xvi. 14.)

[Te Deum follows]
