St. Hedwig, Widow
Semiduplex
[Sancti/10-16]

Lessons I–III: from the Scripture of the day.
Lessons VII–IX: from the Common of Widows (C7a).

Lesson IV
Hedwiga, a Princess, in whom the splendour of her family was outshone by the radiant innocency of her life, was the daughter of Bertold and Agnes, Marquess and Marchioness of Moravia, and sister to Gertrude, wife of Andrew, King of Hungary, and mother of the holy Elizabeth of Thuringia. From her earliest childhood she was a very grave child, and had already done with childish things when, at twelve years of age, she was given in marriage by her father and mother to Henry, Grand Prince of Poland. In marriage she kept the bed in all holiness undefined, and brought up in the fear of God the children that were therein begotten of her. (After the birth of her sixth child,) she was fain to give herself more continually to God, and induced her husband to agree to a mutual vow of separation of bed-fellowship. After his death (in 1238,) by the inspiration of God, whom she besought in unceasing prayer, she clad herself for godliness' sake in the habit of a Cistercian nun in the monastery (which had been finished) at Trebnitz (in 1219.) She continued absorbed in God. She remained engaged in the Divine Office and hearing Masses from sunrise till noon, and trod mightily under foot the old enemy of man.

℟. Because of truth, and meekness, and righteousness; * And thy right hand shall lead thee wonderfully.
℣. In thy comeliness, and thy beauty, go forward, fare prosperously, and reign.
℟. And thy right hand shall lead thee wonderfully.

Lesson V
She could not bear to hear talk of worldly things, unless they had to do with the things of God or the saving of souls. She was very wise in business, not doing too much, nor unseasonably, and withal courteous and gentle toward all men. She got a great victory over herself by maltreating her flesh with fasting, watching, and rough clothing. She was an example of the higher Christian graces and of a godly nun, by the wisdom of her counsels, and the straightforwardness and peacefulness of her mind. It was her use to rank herself after all others, and cheerfully to undertake lower offices than those of the other nuns. She ministered to the poor even upon her knees, and washed and kissed the feet of lepers, having such command over herself as not to recoil from their sores oozing with matter.

℟. Thou hast loved righteousness, and hated iniquity; * Therefore God, thy God, hath anointed thee with the oil of gladness.
℣. Because of truth, and meekness, and righteousness.
℟. Therefore God, thy God, hath anointed thee with the oil of gladness.

Lesson VI
Her long-suffering and endurance were very marvellous, especially when her son Henry, Duke of Silesia, to whom she bore a mother's love, was killed by the Tartars (in 1241.) His death drew from her rather thanksgiving to God than tears for him. (She died upon the 15th day of October, in the year 1243.) She was famous for miracles. One while, being called on, she restored to life a boy who had fallen into the water, been dashed against the wheels of a mill, and wholly crushed. This and the like being duly proved, Clement IV. numbered her name among those of the Saints, and allowed her Feastday to be kept in Poland, in which country, being Patroness, she hath most honour, upon the 15th of October; which permission was given to the whole Church by Innocent XI. (rubrica tridentina) for the 17th day of the same month.

℟. Favour is deceitful, and beauty is vain * A woman that feareth God she shall be praised.
℣. Give her of the fruit of her hands, and let her own works praise her in the gates.
℟. A woman that feareth God she shall be praised.
℣. Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, * and to the Holy Ghost.
℟. A woman that feareth God she shall be praised.
