St. Marguerite-Marie Alacoque, Virgin
Duplex
[Sancti/10-17]

Lessons I–III: from the Scripture of the day.

Lesson IV
Margaret Mary Alacoque was born of a respectable family in a village in the diocese of Autun. From her earliest years she gave signs of holiness. Filled with a burning love of the Virgin Mother of God, and of the august mystery of the Eucharist, while still a young girl she dedicated her virginity to God. Above all else she strove to realize in her life the performance of Christian virtues. She delighted to spend continuous hours in prayers and in meditation upon the things of heaven. She was humble, and patient in adversity. She practised bodily penance. She was charitable towards her neighbours, especially the poor. By every means within her power she strove diligently to imitate the most holy example left by our divine Redeemer.

℟. Because of truth, and meekness, and righteousness; * And thy right hand shall lead thee wonderfully.
℣. In thy comeliness, and thy beauty, go forward, fare prosperously, and reign.
℟. And thy right hand shall lead thee wonderfully.

Lesson V
Margaret entered the Order of the Visitation. There her life became immediately a shining example to others. God endowed her highly with the gift of prayer. He gave her other favours, such as frequent visitations. The most famous of these was that one when Jesus appeared to her as she knelt in prayer before the Blessed Sacrament. Opening his breast, He revealed his divine Heart glowing with flames and encircled with a crown of thorns. He bade her in return for his excessive love and in atonement for the insults of ungrateful men, to seek to have established public adoration of his Heart. This devotion he promised to enrich with treasures of heavenly grace. When, out of humility, she hesitated to undertake so great a task, the loving Saviour encouraged her. At the same time he pointed out Claude de la Colombiere, a man of great holiness, as one who could guide and help her. Our Lord also comforted her with the assurance that very great blessings would accrue afterwards to the Church from the worship of his divine Heart.

℟. Thou hast loved righteousness, and hated iniquity; * Therefore God, thy God, hath anointed thee with the oil of gladness.
℣. Because of truth, and meekness, and righteousness.
℟. Therefore God, thy God, hath anointed thee with the oil of gladness.

Lesson VI
Margaret strove ardently to fulfill the Redeemer's command. Vexations, even bitter insults, were her portion from some who maintained that she was subject to mental aberrations. She not only bore these sufferings patiently, she even profited by them, offering herself in anguish and reproach as a victim acceptable to God, bearing all things as a more sure means of accomplishing her purpose. Renowned for her religious perfection, becoming each day more closely united with her divine spouse by contemplation of celestial things, she took flight to him in the forty-third year of her age, and in the year of restored salvation 1690. She became famous for miracles. Benedict XV added her to the list of the saints; Pius XI extended her office to the universal Church.

℟. After her shall virgins be brought unto the King, her fellows * They shall be brought unto thee with gladness and rejoicing.
℣. In thy comeliness and thy beauty, go forward, fare prosperously, and reign.
℟. They shall be brought unto thee with gladness and rejoicing.
℣. Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, * and to the Holy Ghost.
℟. They shall be brought unto thee with gladness and rejoicing.

Lesson VII
From the Holy Gospel according to Matthew
Matt 11:25-30
At that time: Jesus answered and said: I thank thee, O Father, Lord of heaven and earth, because thou hast hid these things from the wise and prudent, and hast revealed them unto babes. And so on, and that which followeth.

Homily of St. Francis de Sales, Bishop
Sermo 23 in die Pentecostes alter, circa medium
There is no other true knowledge given but that which is given by the Holy Ghost. And this is granted to the humble only. Have we not known great theologians who spake marvellously of the virtues but did not practice them? Have we not seen, on the contrary, many women who did not know how to discourse on the virtues, practice the works of virtue worthily? The Holy Spirit hath made these wise because they had fear of the Lord, piety and humility.

℟. This is one of those wise virgins, whom the Lord found watching, for when she took her lamp, she took oil with her. * And when the Lord came, she went in with him to the marriage.
℣. At midnight there was a cry made: Behold, the Bridegroom cometh, go ye out to meet him.
℟. And when the Lord came, she went in with him to the marriage.

Lesson VIII
Fragmentum sermo 16, in III Dominica post Pentecostem, initio
Our Lord is the great and excellent physician of all our infirmities. Before he came into the world he announced openly to his prophets, I will bind up that which was broken, and I will strengthen that which is weak. Finally with his own lips he invited us, saying, Come unto me, all ye that labour and are burdened, and I will give you rest. What wonder is it, then, if we see him surrounded by the sick, by sinners, and by publicans. Is it not the glory of the physician to be sought out by the sick?

℟. At midnight there was a cry made: * Behold, the Bridegroom cometh, go ye out to meet him.
℣. Trim your lamps, O ye wise virgins.
℟. Behold, the Bridegroom cometh, go ye out to meet him.
℣. Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, * and to the Holy Ghost.
℟. Behold, the Bridegroom cometh, go ye out to meet him.

Lesson IX
Fragmentum serm. 10 pro Feria II post Pascha, in fine
The Lord beareth our miseries and ennobleth them. He layeth our miseries to his Heart; he sheweth his side. It is meet then, that we should make some return to him, lest he who now sheweth us his wounds out of love, may one day shew them with wrath and indignation. Grant, O good Jesu, that we may receive the peace which thou dost offer and let us see thy wounds. Since there remain faith, hope and charity, grant that, rooted in faith, rejoicing in hope, glowing in charity, we may await thy coming in the blessed expectation that we may see thee as the Lamb upon the right, and not as the lion on the left. May clear sight take the place of hope, and, to our imperfect charity may there succeed that perfect charity in which we may rejoice forever and ever. Amen.

[Te Deum follows]
