Octave of All Saints
Duplex majus
[Sancti/11-08]

Lessons I–III: from the Scripture of the day.
Lesson IX: of Four Crowned Martyrs (11-08r).

Lesson IV
From the Book upon Death, written by the holy Martyr Cyprian, Bishop (of Carthage)
At end
Dearly beloved brethren, we should keep well in our mind and thoughts that we are living here meanwhile as strangers and pilgrims. Let us hail that day which will see us each at home in one of the many mansions, which will see us delivered hence, and disentangled from the nets and snares of things temporal, and put us back into the Garden of Eden, and into the kingdom of heaven. Is there any in a far country but is quick to make his way to his Fatherland? Was ever any in haste to make his voyage homeward, but longed for a fair wind, that he might the sooner embrace his loved ones?

℟. The Fore-runner of the Lord cometh, to whom He Himself bare witness, saying: * Among them that are born of women there hath not risen a greater than John the Baptist.
℣. A Prophet? Yea, and much more than a Prophet. This is he of whom the Saviour saith:
℟. Among them that are born of women there hath not risen a greater than John the Baptist.

Lesson V
We reckon Paradise to be our home; already we begin to have the Patriarchs for our kinsmen. Why should we not make haste and run, to see our home, and to greet our kinsfolk? There are a great many of those we love waiting for us there father, and mother, and brothers, and children, there in great company they await us, they who are sure now never to die any more, but not yet sure of us. O, when we come to see them and to embrace them, what gladness will it be both for us and for them! O, what will be the brightness of life in that heavenly kingdom where there is no more fear of death, but the certainty of living everlastingly! O, what consummated, O, what enduring happiness?

℟. These are they who while yet they lived in the flesh, planted the Church in their own blood; * They drank of the Lord's cup, and became the friends of God.
℣. Their sound is gone out through all the earth, and their words to the ends of the world.
℟. They drank of the Lord's cup, and became the friends of God.

Lesson VI
There is the glorious company of the Apostles, there is the jubilant fellowship of the Prophets, there is the countless army of Martyrs crowned for victory in strife and in suffering. There triumph the virgins who by noble self-control have tamed the desires of the flesh and of the body. There are repaid with mercy the merciful, who by feeding and gifting the needy, have wrought righteousness, have kept the commandments of the Lord, and have exchanged heritages upon earth for treasures in heaven. Thitherward, dearly beloved brethren, let us eagerly run, with such as these soon to be, unto Christ soon to come, let us be fain.

℟. O ye My Saints, who, being in the flesh, didst have striving * I will render unto you a reward of your labours.
℣. Come, ye blessed of My Father, inherit the kingdom
℟. I will render unto you a reward of your labours.
℣. Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, * and to the Holy Ghost.
℟. I will render unto you a reward of your labours.

Lesson VII
From the Holy Gospel according to Matthew
Matt 5:1-12
At that time Jesus seeing the multitudes, he went up into a mountain, and when he was set down, his disciples came unto him. And so on.

Homily by St. Augustine, Bishop (of Hippo.)
Bk. i. on the Lord's Sermon.
Blessed are ye, saith the Lord, when men shall revile you, and persecute you, and shall say all manner of evil against you falsely, for My sake. Rejoice, and be exceeding glad for great is your reward in heaven. If any be seeking under the name of a Christian the pleasures of this world and the possession of temporal goods, let him bethink him that our blessedness is inward, even as the mouth of the Prophet saith concerning the soul of the Church The King's daughter is all glorious within. (Ps. xliv. 15.) Without, she is reviled, and persecution and evil report are her promised portion. And yet for these very things, great is her reward in heaven, as indeed is felt in the hearts of the sufferers, at least of such as are able already to say But we glory in tribulations also; knowing that tribulation worketh patience; and patience, experience; and experience, hope; and hope maketh not ashamed; because the love of God is shed abroad in our hearts by the Holy Ghost, Which is given unto us. ~(Rom. v. 3-5.)

℟. Let your loins be girded about, and your lights burning; * And ye yourselves like unto men that wait for their lord, when he will return from the wedding.
℣. Watch therefore, for ye know not what hour your Lord doth come.
℟. And ye yourselves like unto men that wait for their lord, when he will return from the wedding.

Lesson VIII
To suffer such things is not in itself fruitful; what is fruitful, is to bear them for Christ's Name's sake not calmly only but gladly. There are a great many heretics who mislead souls under the name of Christians, and they suffer such things plentifully, but they are cut out from the reward, for it is not said only Blessed are they which are persecuted, but Blessed are they which are persecuted for righteousness' sake. Where there is not sound faith there cannot be righteousness, for the just shall live by faith. (Heb. x. 38.) Neither let schismatics promise themselves any of that reward, for as righteousness cannot exist where there is no faith, so neither can it exist where there is no love. And schismatics have no love, for love worketh no ill to his neighbour, (Rom. xiii. 10,) and if they had it, they would not tear the Body of Christ, which is the Church.

℟. At midnight there was a cry made: * Behold, the Bridegroom cometh, go ye out to meet him.
℣. Trim your lamps, O ye wise virgins.
℟. Behold, the Bridegroom cometh, go ye out to meet him.
℣. Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, * and to the Holy Ghost.
℟. Behold, the Bridegroom cometh, go ye out to meet him.
