In Commemoratione Omnium Fidelium Defunctorum
Duplex
[Sancti/11-02]

Lesson I
Job 7:16-21
Spare me, for my days are nothing. What is a man that thou shouldst magnify him? or why dost thou set thy heart upon him? Thou visitest him early in the morning, and thou provest him suddenly. How long wilt thou not spare me, nor suffer me to swallow down my spittle? I have sinned: what shall I do to thee, O keeper of men? why hast thou set me opposite to thee, and I am become burdensome to myself? Why dost thou not remove my sin, and why dost thou not take away my iniquity? Behold now I shall sleep in the dust: and if thou seek me in the morning, I shall not be.

℟. I believe that my Redeemer liveth, and that I shall stand up from the earth at the latter day, * And in my flesh shall I see God my Saviour.
℣. Whom I shall see for myself, and mine eyes shall behold, and not another.
℟. And in my flesh shall I see God my Saviour.

Lesson II
Job 14:1-6
Man born of a woman, living for a short time, is filled with many miseries. Who cometh forth like a flower, and is destroyed, and fleeth as a shadow, and never continueth in the same state. And dost thou think it meet to open thy eyes upon such an one, and to bring him into judgment with thee? Who can make him clean that is conceived of unclean seed? is it not thou who only art? The days of man are short, and the number of his months is with thee: thou hast appointed his bounds which cannot be passed. Depart a little from him, that he may rest, until his wished for day come, as that of the hireling

℟. Thou Who didst call up Lazarus from the grave after that he had begun to stink * Do Thou, O Lord, grant them rest and a place of forgiveness.
℣. Thou Who shalt come to judge the quick and dead, and the world by fire
℟. Do Thou, O Lord, grant them rest and a place of forgiveness.

Lesson III
Job 19:20-27
The flesh being consumed. My bone hath cleaved to my skin, and nothing but lips are left about my teeth. Have pity on me, have pity on me, at least you my friends, because the hand of the Lord hath touched me. Why do you persecute me as God, and glut yourselves with my flesh? Who will grant me that my words may be written? Who will grant me that they may be marked down in a book? With an iron pen and in a plate of lead, or else be graven with an instrument in flint stone. For I know that my Redeemer liveth, and in the last day I shall rise out of the earth. And I shall be clothed again with my skin, and in my flesh I will see my God. Whom I myself shall see, and my eyes shall behold, and not another: this my hope is laid up in my bosom.

℟. Lord, when Thou comest to judge the earth, where shall I hide myself from the face of thy wrath? * For I have sinned greatly in my life.
℣. I dread my sins, I blush before thee I see the great tribunal set! In fear and terror I implore thee, Forgive when soul and Judge are met!
℟. For I have sinned greatly in my life. $Requiem
℟. For I have sinned greatly in my life.

Lesson IV
From the book of St. Augustine, the Bishop, on the Care for the Deceased
Cap. 2 & 3
If this be true, doubtless also the providing for the interment of bodies a place at the Memorials of Saints, is a mark of a good human affection towards the remains of one's friends. Yet it follows not that the bodies of the departed are to be despised and flung aside, and above all of just and faithful men, which bodies as organs and vessels to all good works their spirit has holily used. For if a father's garment and ring, and whatever such like, is the more dear to those whom they leave behind, the greater their affection is towards their parents, in no wise are the bodies themselves to be spurned, which truly we wear in more familiar and close conjunction than any of our putting on. For these pertain not to ornament or aid which is applied from without, but to the very nature of man. Whence also the funerals of the just men of old were with dutiful piety cared for, and their obsequies celebrated, and sepulture provided: and themselves while living did touching burial or even translation of their bodies give charge to their sons.

℟. Remember, O God, that my life is wind. * The eye of him that hath seen me shall see me no more.
℣. Out of the depths have I cried unto thee, O Lord! Lord, hear my voice.
℟. The eye of him that hath seen me shall see me no more.

Lesson V
Cap. 4
And when this affection is exhibited to the departed by faithful men who were most dear to them, there is no doubt that it profits them who while living in the body merited that such things should profit them after this life. But even if some necessity should through absence of all facility not allow bodies to be interred, or in such places interred, yet should there be no pretermitting of supplications for the spirits of the dead: which supplications, that they should be made for all in Christian and catholic fellowship departed, even without mentioning of their names, under a general commemoration, the Church has charged herself withal; to the intent that they which lack, for these offices, parents or sons or whatever kindred or friends, may have the same afforded unto them by the one pious mother which is common to all. But if there were lack of these supplications, which are made with right faith and piety for the dead, I account that it should not a whit profit their spirits, howsoever in holy places the lifeless bodies should be deposited.

℟. Woe is me, O Lord! for I have sinned greatly in my life. I am smitten what shall I do? Whither shall I flee but unto thee, O my God? * Have mercy upon me, when Thou comest at the latter day.
℣. My soul is sore vexed, but Thou, O Lord, help me.
℟. Have mercy upon me, when Thou comest at the latter day.

Lesson VI
Cap. 18
Which things being so, let us not think that to the dead for whom we have a care, any thing reaches save what by sacrifices either of the altar, or of prayers, or of alms, we solemnly supplicate: although not to all for whom they are done be they profitable, but to them only by whom while they live it is obtained that they should be profitable. But forasmuch as we discern not who these be, it is meet to do them for all regenerate persons, that none of them may be passed by to whom these benefits may and ought to reach. For better it is that these things shall be superfluously done to them whom they neither hinder nor help, than lacking to them whom they help. More diligently however does each man these things for his own near and dear friends, in order that they may be likewise done unto him by his. But as for the burying of the body, whatever is bestowed on that, is no aid of salvation, but an office of humanity, according to that affection by which no man ever hates his own flesh. Whence it is fitting that he take what care he is able for the flesh of his neighbor, when he is gone that bare it. And if they do these things who believe not the resurrection of the flesh, how much more are they beholden to do the same who do believe; that so, an office of this kind bestowed upon a body, dead but yet to rise again and to remain to eternity, may also be in some sort a testimony of the same faith?

℟. Hold not my sins in remembrance, O Lord, * When thou comest to judge the world by fire.
℣. Make my way straight before thy face, O Lord my God.
℟. When thou comest to judge the world by fire. $Requiem
℟. When thou comest to judge the world by fire.

Lesson VII
From the first letter of St. Paul to the Corinthians
1 Cor 15:12-22
Now if Christ be preached, that he arose again from the dead, how do some among you say, that there is no resurrection of the dead? But if there be no resurrection of the dead, then Christ is not risen again. And if Christ be not risen again, then is our preaching vain, and your faith is also vain. Yea, and we are found false witnesses of God: because we have given testimony against God, that he hath raised up Christ; whom he hath not raised up, if the dead rise not again. For if the dead rise not again, neither is Christ risen again. And if Christ be not risen again, your faith is vain, for you are yet in your sins. Then they also that are fallen asleep in Christ, are perished. If in this life only we have hope in Christ, we are of all men most miserable. But now Christ is risen from the dead, the firstfruits of them that sleep For by a man came death, and by a man the resurrection of the dead. And as in Adam all die, so also in Christ all shall be made alive.

℟. Forasmuch as I sin daily, and repent not, the fear of death troubleth me. * O God, have mercy upon me, and save me, for in hell there is no redemption.
℣. Save me, O God, by thy name, and judge me in thy strength.
℟. O God, have mercy upon me, and save me, for in hell there is no redemption.

Lesson VIII
1 Cor 15:35-44
But some man will say: How do the dead rise again? or with what manner of body shall they come? Senseless man, that which thou sowest is not quickened, except it die first. And that which thou sowest, thou sowest not the body that shall be; but bare grain, as of wheat, or of some of the rest. But God giveth it a body as he will: and to every seed its proper body. All flesh is not the same flesh: but one is the flesh of men, another of beasts, another of birds, another of fishes. And there are bodies celestial, and bodies terrestrial: but, one is the glory of the celestial, and another of the terrestrial. One is the glory of the sun, another the glory of the moon, and another the glory of the stars. For star differeth from star in glory. So also is the resurrection of the dead. It is sown in corruption, it shall rise in incorruption. It is sown in dishonour, it shall rise in glory. It is sown in weakness, it shall rise in power. It is sown a natural body, it shall rise a spiritual body.

℟. O Lord, judge me not according to my works; for I have done nothing that can be counted in respect of thee. I beseech thy majesty therefore, that thou wouldest * Blot out my transgressions, O God.
℣. Lord, wash me thoroughly from mine iniquity and cleanse me from my sin.
℟. Blot out my transgressions, O God.

Lesson IX
1 Cor 15:51-58
Behold, I tell you a mystery. We shall all indeed rise again: but we shall not all be changed. In a moment, in the twinkling of an eye, at the last trumpet: for the trumpet shall sound, and the dead shall rise again incorruptible: and we shall be changed. For this corruptible must put on incorruption; and this mortal must put on immortality. And when this mortal hath put on immortality, then shall come to pass the saying that is written: Death is swallowed up in victory. O death, where is thy victory? O death, where is thy sting? Now the sting of death is sin: and the power of sin is the law. But thanks be to God, who hath given us the victory through our Lord Jesus Christ. Therefore, my beloved brethren, be ye steadfast and unmoveable; always abounding in the work of the Lord, knowing that your labour is not in vain in the Lord.

℟. Deliver me, O Lord, from eternal death in that awful day * when the heavens and the earth shall be shaken, and Thou shalt come to judge the world by fire.
℣. Quaking and dread take hold upon me, when I look for the coming of the trial and the wrath to come.
℟. When the heavens and the earth shall be shaken.
℣. That day is a day of wrath, of wasteness and desolation, a great day and exceeding bitter.
℟. When Thou shalt come to judge the world by fire. $Requiem
℟. Deliver me, O Lord, from eternal death in that awful day * when the heavens and the earth shall be shaken, and Thou shalt come to judge the world by fire.
