Sixth Day Within the Octave of All Saints
Semiduplex
[Sancti/11-06oct]

Lessons I–III: from the Scripture of the day.

Lesson IV
From the Sermons of St. Bernard, Abbot (of Clairvaux)
2nd for All Saints' Day
Dearly beloved brethren, since we keep on this day the memory of all the Saints, that memory so joyous and so worthy of all our thoughts, it seemeth to me worth the while, the Holy Ghost helping me, to address to your kind indulgence some remarks upon that happiness which they are all enjoying in blessed restfulness, and that final consummation they are awaiting. It is a faithful saying, and worthy of all acceptation, that if we thus solemnly honour them, we should follow the example of their conversation; if we proclaim them so blessed, we should strive our best to reach the same blessedness; if we are well pleased to hear them praised, we should be bettered by their prayers.

℟. The Fore-runner of the Lord cometh, to whom He Himself bare witness, saying: * Among them that are born of women there hath not risen a greater than John the Baptist.
℣. A Prophet? Yea, and much more than a Prophet. This is he of whom the Saviour saith:
℟. Among them that are born of women there hath not risen a greater than John the Baptist.

Lesson V
What is it to the Saints that we should praise them? What to them that we should glorify them? What is this our Feast to them? What are honours on earth to them whom, according as the Son hath faithfully promised, His Father is honouring? What are our eulogies to them? They are full. Verily, dearly beloved brethren, of our goods the Saints have no need, and our devotion toward them doth nothing for them. Our honouring their memory hath to do with ourselves and not with them. Would ye know what it hath to do with us? In me I confess that at their remembrance I feel kindled a vehement longing, yea, a three-fold longing.

℟. These are they who while yet they lived in the flesh, planted the Church in their own blood; * They drank of the Lord's cup, and became the friends of God.
℣. Their sound is gone out through all the earth, and their words to the ends of the world.
℟. They drank of the Lord's cup, and became the friends of God.

Lesson VI
It is a common saying that out of sight, out of mind. The memory is a kind of sight, and to think of the Saints, is to call them up before the mind's eye. Such is our portion in the land of the living, but it is not a little portion, if love, (as it ought to do,) be joined with remembrance; it is in such sense that we must say that our conversation is in heaven. (Phil. iii. 20.) Very differently to what is theirs. For they are there actually, where we are only in desire; they in very presence, we only in thought.

℟. O ye My Saints, who, being in the flesh, didst have striving * I will render unto you a reward of your labours.
℣. Come, ye blessed of My Father, inherit the kingdom
℟. I will render unto you a reward of your labours.
℣. Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, * and to the Holy Ghost.
℟. I will render unto you a reward of your labours.

Lesson VII
From the Holy Gospel according to Matthew
Matt 5:1-12
At that time, Jesus seeing the multitudes, went up into a mountain, and when he was set down, his disciples came unto him. And so on.

Homily by St. Augustine, Bishop (of Hippo.)
Bk. i. on the Lord's Sermon. Ch. 4
Wherefore, if we reckon up the Beatitudes as ascending steps, the first is the fear of God; the second, godliness; the third, knowledge; the fourth, firmness; the fifth, counsel; the sixth, understanding; the seventh, wisdom. The fear of God pertaineth unto the lowly, as it is said Blessed are the poor in spirit, for their's is the kingdom of heaven, that is, it is for them that are not puffed up, for them that are not proud, as also saith the Apostle Be not highminded, but fear, (Rom. xi. 20,) that is, Be not puffed up. Godliness pertaineth unto the meek; for he that seeketh after a godly sort, honoureth the Holy Scripture, and when he findeth therein that which he doth not yet understand he blameth not the Scripture, nor gainstandeth. And this is to be meek. Therefore is it said here Blessed are the meek, for they shall inherit the earth.

℟. Let your loins be girded about, and your lights burning; * And ye yourselves like unto men that wait for their lord, when he will return from the wedding.
℣. Watch therefore, for ye know not what hour your Lord doth come.
℟. And ye yourselves like unto men that wait for their lord, when he will return from the wedding.

Lesson VIII
Is knowledge pertaineth unto them that mourn, who have already learnt from the Scriptures amid what ills they are entangled, even in those things which once in their ignorance they affected as being good and useful. Of such is it said Blessed are ye that weep now. (Luke vi. 21.) Firmness pertaineth unto such as hunger and thirst after righteousness. These are they who toil bravely, animated by the longing for that joy which is caused by real blessedness, and striving therefore to wean their love away from so-called joys whose origin is merely earthly and fleshly. Of them is it said Blessed are they which do hunger and thirst after righteousness. Counsel pertaineth unto the merciful, for our only way of escape from the horrors of our own guilt's punishment is that we should forgive even as we hope to be ourselves forgiven, and should help others as much as we can, even as we would fain be holpen in that wherein we can ourselves do nothing. And of such as so do, it is said Blessed are the merciful, for they shall obtain mercy from God.

℟. At midnight there was a cry made: * Behold, the Bridegroom cometh, go ye out to meet him.
℣. Trim your lamps, O ye wise virgins.
℟. Behold, the Bridegroom cometh, go ye out to meet him.
℣. Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, * and to the Holy Ghost.
℟. Behold, the Bridegroom cometh, go ye out to meet him.

Lesson IX
Understanding pertaineth unto the pure in heart, for these are they whose clear eye can see that which the fleshly eye hath not seen, neither the ear heard, neither hath it entered into the heart of man to conceive; and therefore of them it is said: Blessed are the pure in heart, for they shall see God. Wisdom pertaineth unto the peacemakers, even unto them in whom all things are well ordered, and passion no longer maketh insurrection against reason, but all things are subject unto human common sense, even as the same again is made subject unto God. And of such is it said: Blessed are the peacemakers. But for all these forms of blessedness there is one and the same reward, although diversely named, and that reward is the kingdom of heaven.

[Te Deum follows]
