St. Andrew Avellino Confessor
Duplex
[Sancti/11-10]

Lessons I–III: from the Scripture of the day.
Lessons VII–VIII: from the Common of a Confessor not a Bishop (C5).
Lesson IX: of Sts. Tryphon, Respicius, et Nympha, Martyrs (11-10o).

Lesson IV
Lancelot Avelino, who afterwards took the name of Andrew, was born at Castro Nuovo, a small town in Lucania, (in the kingdom of Naples, in the year of our Lord 1520.) From his earliest childhood he gave no dark signs of the holiness of his after life. When as a lad he was away from home at school, he so passed the slippery paths of that age, as ever keeping before his eyes, amid the pursuit of earthly knowledge, the true beginning of wisdom, which is the fear of the Lord. ~(Prov. ix. 10.) He was exceedingly comely, but withal careful in purity, and thereby escaped oftentimes the shameless proposals of women, and somewhiles even resisted open violence. He had already become a clerk when he went to Naples to study law. There he was ordained Priest, and also took his degree in Jurisprudence. He undertook cases only in the Church Courts, and for certain private persons, according to the rules of the Sacred Canons. l Once in pleading a cause, in a matter indeed which was of no weight, a lie escaped him. Almost forthwith thereafter, in reading the Holy Scriptures, he came upon the words: The mouth that lieth killeth the soul (Wisd. i. 11) and so great was the grief and remorse which he felt for his sin that he made up his mind to leave that way of life. He therefore gave up his law business, and set himself altogether to mind the worship of God and the execution of his holy ministry. The eminent pattern which he gave of all the graces proper to a Churchman moved the Archbishop of Naples to commit to him the care of a certain nunnery in that city. The holy man's zeal (for removing all obstacles to the recollection of these spouses of Christ, in which consisteth the very essence of their state and virtue,) stirred up the malice and rage of certain wicked men in the city, (whom he had forbid being admitted to the grate to speak to any of the nuns.) He once narrowly escaped death, with which they threatened him; and another time received three wounds in his face from a bully. These injuries he bore with thorough meekness. Out of an earnest desire of more readily attaining to a perfect disengagement of his heart from all earthly things, he humbly sought and ~(in 1556) obtained to be admitted into the Order of Regular Clerks, (called Theatins,) and on this occasion, out of the love he bore to the Cross, he entreated that his name might be changed from Lancelot to Andrew.

℟. The Lord made him honourable, and defended him from his enemies, and kept him safe from those that lay in wait for him; * And gave him perpetual glory.
℣. He went down with him into the pit, and left him not in bonds.
℟. And gave him perpetual glory.

Lesson V
He entered manfully and cheerily upon the harder life, set to work to better himself therein, and to that end made two very grim vows, the first, perpetually to fight against his own will, the second, always to advance to the utmost of his power in Christian perfection. Of the discipline of his Order he was a stern defender, and when he was set over others the observance thereof was his great care. Whatever time the duties of his work and his institute left him, he gave to prayer and the salvation of souls. His godliness and wisdom in hearing of confessions were beautiful. He went many times through the farthest lanes and suburbs of Naples, bringing Gospel ministry with great gain of souls. The greatness of his love toward his neighbour God was pleased to crown even by signs and wonders. One stormy night he was coming home from hearing a sick man's confession, when the rain and wind put out the light which was carried before him, but he and they that were with him not only came dry through the thickest of the rain, but there came also a strange light out of his body and showed them the way in the deepest of the darkness. He was a wonderful instance of selfcontrol, long-suffering, lowliness, and hatred of self. He bore with stillness the murder of his nephew, held in the passion of his kinsfolk to take revenge, and even asked pity for the assassins from the judges.

℟. The Lord loved him and beautified him; He clothed him with a robe of glory, * And crowned him at the gates of Paradise.
℣. The Lord hath put on him the breast-plate of faith, and hath adorned him.
℟. And crowned him at the gates of Paradise.

Lesson VI
He spread in many places the Institute of Regular Clerks, and founded their houses at Milan and Piacenza. The holy Cardinal Charles Borromeo, and the Cardinal Paul of Arezzo, being himself a Regular Clerk, men by both of whom he was well liked, used his help in their care for souls. Toward the Virgin Mother of God he was constant in an extraordinary love and reverence. He won the conversation of Angels, whom he said he used to hear singing when he was praising God. He set an example of the highest graces, even to the gift of prophecy, whereby he saw into men's hearts and knew things afar off or even yet to come. Full of years and worn out with work, he was beginning the Liturgy, when, having repeated thrice the words, I will go unto the Altar of God, he was felled by a stroke of apoplexy, and, duly fortified by the Sacraments, in the arms of his friends, most peacefully gave up his soul to God, (upon the 10th day of November, in the year 1608.) The crowds which flock to his grave in the Church of St. Paul at Naples are still as great as they were when his body was first laid there. He was famous for signs and wonders both during his life and after his death, and Pope Clement XI solemnly enrolled his name among those of the Saints.

℟. This is he which did according unto all that God commanded him; and God said unto him: Enter thou into My rest, * For thee have I seen righteous before Me among all people.
℣. This is he which loved not his life in this world, and is come unto an everlasting kingdom.
℟. For thee have I seen righteous before Me among all people.
℣. Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, * and to the Holy Ghost.
℟. For thee have I seen righteous before Me among all people.
