St. Catharine of Alexandria, Virgin and Martyr
Duplex
[Sancti/11-25]

Lessons I–III: from the Scripture of the day.
Lessons VII–IX: from the Common of a Virgin Martyr (C6).

Lesson IV
This Catharine was a noble maiden of Alexandria, who from her earliest years joined the study of the liberal arts with fervent faith, and in a short while came to such an height of holiness and learning, that when she was eighteen years of age she prevailed over the chiefest wits. When she saw many diversely tormented and haled to death by command of Maximin, because they professed the Christian religion, she went boldly unto him and rebuked him for his savage cruelty, bringing forward likewise most sage reasons why the faith of Christ should be needful for salvation.

℟. Because of truth, and meekness, and righteousness; * And thy right hand shall lead thee wonderfully.
℣. In thy comeliness, and thy beauty, go forward, fare prosperously, and reign.
℟. And thy right hand shall lead thee wonderfully.

Lesson V
Maximian marvelled at her wisdom, and bade keep her, while he gathered together the most learned men from all quarters and offered them great rewards if they would confute Catharine and bring her from believing in Christ to worship idols. But the event fell contrariwise, for many of the philosophers who had come to dispute with her were overcome by the force and skill of her reasoning, so that the love of Christ Jesus was kindled in them, and they were content even to die for His sake. Then did Maximin strive to beguile Catharine with fair words and promises, and when he found it was lost pains, he caused her to be hided, and bruised with lead-laden whips, and so cast into prison, and neither meat nor drink given to her for the space of eleven days.

℟. Thou hast loved righteousness, and hated iniquity; * Therefore God, thy God, hath anointed thee with the oil of gladness.
℣. Because of truth, and meekness, and righteousness.
℟. Therefore God, thy God, hath anointed thee with the oil of gladness.

Lesson VI
At that time Maximin's wife and Porphyry the Captain of his host, went to the prison to see the damsel, and at her preaching believed in Jesus Christ, and were afterwards crowned with martyrdom. Then was Catharine brought out of ward, and a wheel was set, wherein were fastened many and sharp blades, so that her virgin body might thereby be most direfully cut and torn in pieces, but in a little while, as Catharine prayed, this machine was broken in pieces, at the which marvel many believed in Christ. But Maximin was hardened in his godlessness and cruelty, and commanded to behead Catharine. She bravely offered her neck to the stroke and passed away hence to receive the twain crowns of maidenhood and martyrdom, upon the 25th day of November. Her body was marvelously laid by angels upon Mount Sinai in Arabia.

℟. After her shall virgins be brought unto the King, her fellows * They shall be brought unto thee with gladness and rejoicing.
℣. In thy comeliness and thy beauty, go forward, fare prosperously, and reign.
℟. They shall be brought unto thee with gladness and rejoicing.
℣. Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, * and to the Holy Ghost.
℟. They shall be brought unto thee with gladness and rejoicing.
