The Presentation of the Blessed Virgin Mary
Duplex majus
[Sancti/11-21]

Lessons I–III: from the Feasts of the Blessed Virgin Mary (C11).
Lessons VII–IX: from the Feasts of the Blessed Virgin Mary (C11).

Lesson IV
From the Book Upon the Orthodox Faith, written by St. John of Damascus
Bk. iv, chap. 15
Joachim took to wife that most eminent and praiseworthy woman, Anne. And even as the ancient Hannah, being stricken with barrenness, by prayer and promise became the mother of Samuel, so likewise this woman also through prayer and promise received from God the Mother of God, that in fruitfulness she might not be behind any of the famous matrons. And thus grace (for such is the signification of the name of Anne) is mother of the Lady (for such is the signification of the name of Mary.) And indeed she became the Lady of every creature, since she hath been mother of the Creator. She first saw the light in Joachim's house, hard by the Pool of Bethesda, at Jerusalem, and was carried to the Temple. There planted in the Lord, the dew of His Spirit made her to flourish in the courts of her God, and like a green olive she became a tree, so that all the doves of grace came and lodged in her branches. And so she raised her mind utterly above the lust of life and the lust of the flesh, and kept her soul virgin in her virgin body, as became her that was to receive God into her womb.

℟. I was exalted like a cedar in Lebanon, and as a cypress-tree upon Mount Zion. Like the best myrrh * I yielded a pleasant odour.
℣. Like cinnamon and sweet balsam.
℟. I yielded a pleasant odour.

Lesson V
From the Book Upon Virgins, written by St. Ambrose, Bishop (of Milan.)
ii
Such was Mary that her single life offereth an example to all. If then the doer displease us not, let us applaud the deed; if any other woman seek like reward, let her follow after like works. In the one Virgin how many glorious examples do shine forth. Her's was the hidden treasure of modesty, her's the high standard of faith, her's the self-sacrifice of earnestness, her's to be the pattern of maidenhood at home, of kinswomanhood in ministry, of motherhood in the Temple. O to how many virgins hath she been helpful, how many hath she taken in her arms and presented unto the Lord, saying Here is one who, (like me,) hath kept stainlessly clean the wedding -chamber, the marriage -bed of my Son!

℟. Who is this that cometh up like the sun? This, comely as Jerusalem? * The daughters of Zion saw her, and called her blessed: the queens also, and they praised her.
℣. And about her it was as the flower of roses in the spring of the year, and lilies of the valleys.
℟. The daughters of Zion saw her, and called her blessed the queens also, and they praised her.

Lesson VI
Why should I go on to speak of the scantiness of her eating, or of the multiplicity of her work? how her labour seemed above human capacity, and her refreshment insufficient for human strength, her toil never missing a moment, her fasting taking two days together. And when she was fain to eat, she took not dainties, but whatsoever food came first to hand that would keep body and soul together. She would not sleep till need was, and even then, while her body rested, her soul watched, for she often talked in her sleep, either repeating things that she had read, or going on with what she was doing before sleep interrupted her, or rehearsing things executed, or talking of things projected.

℟. When the Lord beheld the daughter of Jerusalem adorned with her jewels, He greatly desired her beauty * And when the daughters of Zion saw her, they cried out that she was most blessed, saying thy name is as ointment poured forth.
℣. Upon thy right hand did stand the Queen in a vesture of gold wrought about with diverse colours.
℟. And when the daughters of Zion saw her, they cried out that she was most blessed, saying:
℣. Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, * and to the Holy Ghost.
℟. Thy name is as ointment poured forth.
