St. Peter Chrysologus, Bishop, Confessor and Doctor of the Church
Duplex
[Sancti/12-04]

Lessons I–III: from the Scripture of the day.
Lessons VII–IX: from the Common of a Doctor Bishop (C4a).

Lesson IV
Peter, called in Greek Chrysologos, or, of the golden words, on account of his wonderful eloquence, was born of respectable parents at Imola, near Ravenna. He displayed a very early leaning to godliness, and became a disciple of Cornelius of Rome, Bishop of Imola. This Prelate, having experience of his learning and holiness of life, soon ordained him Deacon. On the death of the Archbishop of Ravenna, the people of that place elected a successor, and sent him, according to custom, to Rome, to be confirmed in his appointment by Pope Sixtus III. The Archbishop elect accordingly set forth, along with the ambassadors of the people of Ravenna and Cornelius, Bishop of Imola, attended by Peter the Deacon. While they were yet on the way, the holy Apostle Peter and Apollinaris the Martyr appeared to the Supreme Pontiff in a dream, leading a young man between them, whom they commanded him to make Archbishop. As soon as the embassy arrived at Rome the Pope knew in Peter the young man of his dream, chosen of God to the Archbishopric. Wherefore he set aside him that the people of Ravenna had presented, and preferred Peter to that Metropolitan Church, in the year of our Lord, 433. The ambassadors of the people of Ravenna took it ill, till they heard the vision then they gave themselves up to the will of God, and received the new Archbishop with great reverence.

℟. I have found David My servant, with My holy oil have I anointed him * For My hand shall help him.
℣. The enemy shall prevail nothing against him, nor the son of wickedness afflict him.
℟. For My hand shall help him.

Lesson V
Peter being against his will consecrated Archbishop, arrived at Ravenna, where he was received with great joy by the Emperor Valentinian, the Empress-Mother Galla Placidia, and all the people. And this one thing he asked of them, that, as he, for the saving of their souls, had not refused to bear the heavy weight of the Archbishopric, so they would strive to follow his warnings, and live in submission to the law of God. He took the bodies of the two Saints, namely, Barbatian the Priest, and German, Bishop of Auxerre, and caused them to be embalmed with rich ointments and honourably buried, and he kept the cowl and haircloth shirt of German for a legacy for himself. At Classis, three miles from Ravenna, he built a Baptistery of extraordinary size, and several splendid churches, in honour of the blessed Apostle Andrew and other Saints. He preached a most severe sermon against the acting and dancing of guisards about New Year time, in which discourse he said among other things, He that jesteth with the devil will never rejoice with Christ. By command of Pope Leo I. he addressed an Epistle to the Council of Chalcedon against the heretic Eutyches. He also confuted Eutyches himself in another letter, which is likewise published in the new editions of the Acts of the Council, and is matter of Church History.

℟. I have laid help upon one that is mighty, and have exalted one chosen out of My people * For My hand shall help him.
℣. I have found David My servant, with My holy oil have I anointed him.
℟. For My hand shall help him.

Lesson VI
When he preached in public his vehemence was such that he sometimes became speechless from excitement. This happened to him once when he was preaching on the subject of the woman who had an issue of blood. (Matth. ix. 20-22.) The congregation on this occasion were so wrought up, that they filled the whole place with tears, cries, and prayers, and Peter afterwards thanked God, Who had turned his failure to the profit of their souls. When he had ruled the Church of Ravenna in holiness for about eighteen years, God gave him knowledge that the end of his labours was at hand, and he returned to his home at Imola, to die. When he arrived at Imola, he entered the church of St. Cassian, and offered upon the High Altar a great circlet of gold, set with stones of great price, a golden chalice and a silver paten. Water poured out of these vessels hath often healed hydrophobia and fevers. Some of the people of Ravenna had followed the Archbishop, but he now dismissed them, with a charge to use great prudence in their choice of his successor. Then he fell to prayer, that God would mercifully receive his spirit, asking the same likewise for the sake of his patron St Cassian, and so he passed in peace to a better life, on a 2nd of December, about the year of our Lord 450. His holy body was buried, amid the sorrow and veneration of the whole city, hard by the remains of St. Cassian, where it lieth even to this day, guarded with great reverence. One arm was cut off and sent to Ravenna, where it is preserved in the Ursian Church, in a reliquary of gold and precious stones.

℟. This is he which wrought great wonders before God, and the whole earth is full of his teaching * May he pray for all people, that their sins may be forgiven unto them
℣. This is he which loved not his life in this world, and hath attained unto the kingdom of heaven.
℟. May he pray for all people, that their sins may be forgiven unto them
℣. Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, * and to the Holy Ghost.
℟. May he pray for all people, that their sins may be forgiven unto them
