St. Lucy, Virgin and Martyr
Duplex
[Sancti/12-13]

Lessons I–III: from the Scripture of the day.
Lessons VII–IX: from the Common of a Virgin Martyr (C6), set 2.

Lesson IV
Lucy was a maiden of Syracuse, the daughter of a noble Christian family. Her mother Eutychia, being afflicted with an issue of blood, went with her to Catania, to pray before the body of the blessed Agatha. Lucy, by her earnest prayers at the grave, obtained her mother's cure, through the intercession of Agatha, and then immediately begged her to give to Christ's poor the whole dowry which had been set apart for herself. As soon, therefore, as they returned to Syracuse, they sold the property, and distributed the money among the poor.

℟. Maiden Lucy, why seekest thou of me that which thou thyself canst presently give thy mother? For thy faith hath helped her, and, behold, she is made whole; * Because thou hast made in thy virginity a pleasant dwelling-place for thy God.
℣. Even as Christ hath by me glorified Catania, so by thee shall He glorify Syracuse.
℟. Because thou hast made in thy virginity a pleasant dwellingplace for thy God.

Lesson V
When this came to the ears of one to whom her parents had betrothed her against her will, he accused Lucy before Paschasius, the Prefect of being a Christian. The Prefect could not move her to commit idolatry, either by his entreaties or his threats; nay, the more he strove to persuade her, so much the bolder did she become in her confession. Then, seeing that he could prevail nothing, words, saith he, will cease when we come to blows. To whom the virgin answered, God's servants will never want words, for the Lord Christ hath said: When ye shall stand before kings and governors, take no thought how or what ye shall speak, for it shall be given you in that same hour what ye shall speak, for it is not ye that speak, but the Holy Ghost Which speaketh in you. (Matth. x. 18-20; Mark xiii. 9-11.)

℟. I besought my Lord Jesus Christ that this fire might not take hold upon me; * And I obtained from the Lord that I should not finish my testimony for yet a while.
℣. For so much as they loved me, so bitterly spake they against me: but I gave myself unto prayer.
℟. And I obtained from the Lord that I should not finish my testimony for yet a while.

Lesson VI
Then Paschasius asked her, saying: Is the Holy Ghost in thee? Whereto she answered: They that live in chastity and piety are the temples of the Holy Ghost. Then, said he, I will send thee to be prostituted in a brothel, and get the Holy Ghost out of thee. To whom she made reply: Thou canst not prostitute my will. If thou cause this poor body to be violated, the crown of my soul's purity will be brighter through suffering. Then he bade them take her to the place of shame, but by the power of God it became impossible to move her. Whereupon, being inflamed with anger, he had pitch, resin, and boiling oil poured upon her, and then set on fire. But the fire did not take hold upon her. Therefore he practised many other cruelties upon her, and at last thrust a sword through her neck. When Lucy had received this wound, she began to speak of the peace of the Church, which it should enjoy after the death of Diocletian and Maximian, and presently returned her soul into the hands of God. She testified on the thirteenth day of December. Her body was buried at Syracuse, but afterwards taken to Constantinople, and lastly to Venice.

℟. The Lord made her to prevail in the battle, and she was glorified in the sight of God and man; she spake wisdom before princes; * And the Lord of all loved her.
℣. God shall help her with His countenance; God is in the midst of her, she shall not be moved.
℟. And the Lord of all loved her.
℣. Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, * and to the Holy Ghost.
℟. And the Lord of all loved her.
