St. Eusebius, Bishop and Martyr
Semiduplex
[Sancti/12-16]

Lessons I–III: from the Scripture of the day.

Lesson IV
Eusebius was a Sardinian by birth, first a Reader in the Roman Church, and then Bishop of Vercelli. It seemed specially designed by Providence that he should be called to govern that Church, for the electors, who had never before known him, passed over, with a strange unanimity, all their own fellow-citizens, and chose Eusebius, as soon as they had seen him. He was the first Bishop in the Western Church who established an Order of Regular Clergy, to combine the active with the contemplative life. At this time the storm of Arian blasphemy and sin was sweeping far and wide over the West, and Eusebius set himself to fight against it so manfully, that his unshaken faith brought back Liberius again to life and hope. This Pope, knowing that the Spirit of God was in him, sent him with his Legates to the Emperor Constantius, (in the year 354,) to plead the cause of the Catholic Faith. His earnestness prevailed with that Prince, so that he obtained all that was asked for, and, among other things, permission for a Council to be summoned.

℟. The Lord made him honourable, and defended him from his enemies, and kept him safe from those that lay in wait for him, * And gave him perpetual glory.
℣. He went down with him into the pit, and left him not in bonds.
℟. And gave him perpetual glory.

Lesson V
The year following, the Council met at Milan, and Eusebius, by the invitation of the Emperor, and the desire and command of the Papal Legates, attended. Here the Arians, assembled in a perfect synagogue of Satan, and all furiously raging together against holy Athanasius, found Eusebius one of the stoutest enemies of their faction. As soon as he entered the Council, he delivered a long harangue, wherein he remarked that, of those there gathered together, some were notoriously defiled with heresy, and therefore he proposed that everyone should first of all subscribe the Nicene Creed, before proceeding to any other business. The Arians, in a violent passion, refused, whereupon he on his part refused to subscribe any proceedings against Athanasius, and even skilfully procured the withdrawal of the signature of the holy martyr Denys, then Bishop of Milan, which they had lyingly procured by practising on his simplicity. The Arians were now entirely enraged, and, after many persecutions, procured a decree of banishment against Eusebius. The Saint shook off the dust of his feet against them, and, defying alike the threats of Caesar and the drawn swords of the soldiery, accepted the sentence as one of the dignities of his office. He was sent to Bethshan in the Holy Land, suffering hunger, thirst, stripes, and all manner of violence, but for the Faith's sake he despised this life, and feared not death, but freely delivered his body to the tormentors.

℟. Lord, Thou hast given him his heart's desire. * And hast not withholden the request of his lips.
℣. For Thou hast prevented him with the blessings of sweetness: Thou hast set a crown of precious stones upon his head.
℟. And hast not withholden the request of his lips.

Lesson VI
He wrote a solemn letter from Bethshan, addressed to the clergy and people of Vercelli and that neighbourhood, full of constancy, devotion, and piety, describing the frightful cruelty and brazen impudence of the Arians. From this letter we know how completely they failed to scare him by their threats and their inhuman brutality, or to seduce him by their serpent-like cunning into receiving their communion. In consequence of his unshaken resolution, he was moved from Bethshan into Cappadocia, and then again, to the deserts of Upper Egypt. He suffered exile until the death of Constantius, (in 361,) after which he was allowed to return to his flock. First, however, he took care to attend the Council at Alexandria, called to heal the wounds of the Church, and, afterwards, like a skilful physician, he made a progress through all the provinces of the East, strengthening those that were weak in the Faith, and confirming them in Christian doctrine. Then, with the same healthful results, he passed through Illyricum into Italy, who, at his coming, laid aside her garments of mourning. After his return, he published an expurgated edition of Origen's Commentary on the Psalms, and likewise of the works of Eusebius of Caesarea, both which he translated from Greek into Latin. At length, distinguished by all these great works, he passed to that crown of glory which fadeth not away, promised to them who suffer for the truth. He departed this present life at Vercelli, (in 371,) in the reign of Valentinian and Valens.

℟. The Lord hath put on him a robe of honour, * And put about his head a crown of joy.
℣. With the bread of life and understanding hath the Lord fed him, and given him the water of health and wisdom to drink.
℟. And put about his head a crown of joy.
℣. Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, * and to the Holy Ghost.
℟. And put about his head a crown of joy.

Lesson VII
From the Holy Gospel according to Matthew
Matt 16:24-27
At that time, Jesus said unto His disciples: If any man will come after Me, let him deny himself, and take up his cross, and follow Me. And so on.

Homily by Pope St. Gregory (the Great.)
32nd on the Gospels
Our Lord and Redeemer came into the world a new Man, and gave the world new commandments. For against the ways of our old life, brought and bred up in sin, He set the contrast of His new life. It was the old way, according to the knowledge of the carnal man, for every man to keep his own goods, and, if he were able to do it, to take his neighbour's goods also, and, if he were not able to take them, at least to lust after them. But the Heavenly Physician hath medicines wherewith to meet all the diseases of sin. For, even, as by the art of the physician, things hot are healed by things cold, and things cold by things hot, so doth our Lord set against sin holiness, ordaining for the lecherous purity, for the miserly munificence, for the hot-tempered meekness, and for the proud lowliness.

℟. A crown of gold upon his head, * Wherein is engraved Holiness, an ornament of honour, a costly work.
℣. For Thou hast prevented him with the blessings of sweetness, Thou hast set a crown of precious stones upon his head.
℟. Wherein is engraved Holiness, an ornament of honour, a costly work.

Lesson VIII
So the Lord, when He would give a new commandment unto them that came to Him, said Whosoever he be of you that forsaketh not all that he hath, he cannot be My disciple, (Luke xiv. 33,) as though He had said openly: All ye that according to the old man lust after your neighbour's goods, must, according to the zeal of the new man, give away even that which is your own. But let us hear again what He saith in this place If any man will come after Me, let him deny himself. First He saith that we must deny to ourselves that which is our own, and now that we must even deny ourselves to ourselves. Perchance it is not hard for a man to give up that which is his own, but it is exceeding hard to give up himself. To deny himself his possessions is little but to deny himself himself is a denial exceeding great.

℟. O Lord, thou hast prevented him with blessings of sweetness: * Thou hast set on his head a crown of precious stones.
℣. He asked life of thee: and thou hast given him length of days for ever and ever.
℟. Thou hast set on his head a crown of precious stones.
℣. Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, * and to the Holy Ghost.
℟. Thou hast set on his head a crown of precious stones.

Lesson IX
Let when we come unto Him the Lord will have us deny to ourselves even ourselves, since as many of us as are entered into the battle of faith, are entered into a contention against evil spirits. But the evil spirits have nothing of their own in this world, and therefore must we wrestle with them, naked with naked. For if he that is clothed, wrestle with him that is naked, he faileth swiftly, because he hath whereon he that is naked taketh hold. And what are all things earthly but things wherewith the soul is clothed upon? whosoever therefore will wrestle with Satan, let him cast away his clothes, lest he be thereby endangered.

[Te Deum follows]
